“It would be a shame if all that money went to the Tophams! They will
fly higher than ever!”

Nancy Drew, a pretty girl of sixteen, leaned over the library table and
addressed her father who sat reading a newspaper by the study lamp.

“I beg your pardon, Nancy. What were you saying about the Tophams?”

Carson Drew, a noted criminal and mystery-case lawyer, known far and
wide for his work as a former district attorney, looked up from his
evening paper and smiled indulgently upon his only daughter. Now, as he
gave her his respectful attention, he was not particularly concerned
with the Richard Topham family but rather with the rich glow of the lamp
upon Nancy’s curly golden bob. Not at all the sort of head which one
expected to indulge in serious thoughts, he told himself.

Mischievously, Nancy reached over and tweaked his ear.

“You weren’t paying a bit of attention,” she accused him sternly. “I was
saying I think it’s mean if those snobbish Tophams fall heir to all of
Josiah Crowley’s fortune. Can’t something be done about it?”

Removing his horn-rimmed spectacles and carefully folding the paper,
Carson Drew regarded his daughter meditatively.

“I’m afraid not, Nancy. A will is a will, you know.”

“But it does seem unfair that _all_ the money should go to them.
Especially when they never treated Josiah Crowley like a human being!”

“The Tophams were never noted for their charitable dispositions,” Carson
Drew observed, with a smile. “However, they did give Josiah a home.”

“Yes, and everyone knows why! They wanted to work him into leaving all
his money to them. And it seems that their scheme worked, too! They
treated him like a prince until he made his will in their favor and then
they acted as though he were dirt under their feet. Folks said he died
just to be rid of their everlasting nagging.”

“The Tophams aren’t very well liked in our little city, are they?” Mr.
Drew commented dryly.

“Who could like them, father? Richard Topham is an old skinflint who
made his money by gambling on the stock exchange. And Cora, his wife, is
nothing but a vapid social climber. The two girls, Isabel and Ada, are
even worse. I went to school with them, and I never saw such stuck-up
creatures in all my life. If they fall heir to any more money, this town
won’t be big enough to hold them!”

In her estimate of the Topham family, Nancy Drew did not exaggerate.
Nearly everyone in River Heights shared the opinion that the Tophams
were snobbish and arrogant, and the treatment they accorded old Josiah
Crowley had aroused a great deal of unfavorable comment.

Nancy had never known Josiah well, but had often seen him on the street
and secretly had regarded him as a rather nice but extremely queer sort
of individual. His wife had died during the influenza epidemic following
the World War, and since that time Crowley had made his home with
various relatives. Although well-to-do, he preferred to “visit around.”

At first, the Tophams had evidenced no interest in the old man and he
had been forced to live with kindly relatives who were scarcely able to
have him with them. Crowley appreciated the sacrifice and openly
declared that he intended to make his will in their favor.

Then, three years before his death, the Topham family experienced a
sudden change of heart. They begged Josiah Crowley to make his home with
them, and at last he consented. Presently, rumor had it that the Tophams
had induced him to make his will in their favor.

But as time went on and Mr. Crowley, though failing in health,
maintained as firm a grip on life as ever, the Tophams treated him
unkindly. Although he continued to live with them, it was whispered
about that frequently he slipped away to visit his old friends and that
he intended to change his will again, cutting the Tophams out entirely.

Then one day Josiah Crowley took to his bed and did not get up. Just
before his death he attempted to communicate something to the doctor who
attended him, but his words were unintelligible. After the funeral, only
one will came to light and, to the surprise of everyone, it gave the
entire fortune to the Tophams.

“Father, what do you suppose it was that Mr. Crowley tried to tell the
doctor just before he died?” Nancy demanded, after a moment of thought.
“Do you imagine he was trying to disclose something about his will?”

“Very likely, Nancy. Probably he intended to leave his money to more
deserving relatives. But fate cheated him of the opportunity.”

“But isn’t it possible that he did make such a will and that he was
trying to tell what he had done with it?”

“Yes, that’s a possibility of course. Josiah Crowley was rather queer in
many ways.”

“Perhaps he hid the will somewhere,” Nancy suggested thoughtfully.

“If he did, I’m afraid it will never come to light. The Tophams will see
to that.”

“What do you mean, father?”

“The estate is a considerable one, I understand, Nancy, and the Tophams
don’t intend that anyone shall get a cent of it. It’s my private opinion
that they will take care that a second will is never found.”

“Do you mean that if they discovered the will they would destroy it?”

“Well, I’m not making any accusations, Nancy. But I do know that Richard
Topham is shrewd, and he isn’t noted for his honesty.”

“Can’t the present will be broken?”

“I doubt it. While I haven’t gone into the case, I am of the opinion
that the Tophams have a legal right to the fortune. It would cost
considerable to contest the will, and so far as I know the other
relatives are in poverty. They have filed a claim, declaring that a
later will was made in their favor, but I doubt that the matter will
ever go further.”

“But the Tophams don’t deserve the fortune, father. It doesn’t seem
fair.”

“No, it isn’t fair. But it is legal, and I’m afraid nothing can be done
about it. There were two girls who live somewhere on the River Road that
were great pets of Crowley’s when they were children. It seems to me
that they should have had something. And there are a number of relatives
who really deserve a portion of the fortune.”

Nancy nodded thoughtfully and relapsed into silence while she digested
the facts of the case. From her father she had acquired the habit of
thinking things through to their logical conclusion. Frequently, Carson
Drew had assured her that she went at a thing “like a detective.”
Certainly she had a naturally clever mind and took more than an ordinary
interest in strange or baffling cases.

Carson Drew, a widower, showered a great deal of affection upon his
daughter; it was his secret boast that he had taught her to think for
herself and to think logically. Since he knew that Nancy could be
trusted with confidential information, he frequently discussed his
interesting cases with her.

A number of times Nancy had been present at interviews which her father
had had with noted detectives who desired his aid in solving perplexing
mysteries, and those occasions stood out as red letter days for her.

There was something about a mystery which aroused Nancy’s interest, and
she was never content until it was solved. More than once her father had
found her suggestions, or “intuitions” as he called them, extremely
helpful.

For a reason which she could not understand, the Crowley case had
attracted Nancy’s attention, although it had not fallen into her
father’s hands. She had a certain feeling that a mystery lurked behind
it.

“Father, do you believe Josiah Crowley ever made a second will?” Nancy
demanded suddenly.

“You’re a regular lawyer, the way you cross-examine me,” Carson Drew
protested, but with evident enjoyment. “To tell you the truth, I don’t
know whether he ever made a second will or not. All I do know is
that—but perhaps I shouldn’t mention it since my information is not
very definite.”

“Go on!” Nancy commanded impatiently. “You’re trying to tease me!”

“Well, I do remember that one day nearly a year ago I was standing in
the First National Bank when Crowley came in with Henry Rolsted.”

“Not the attorney who specializes in wills and legal documents?”

“Yes. Well, as I was saying, they came into the bank together. I had no
intention of listening to their conversation, but I couldn’t help but
hear that they were discussing a will. Crowley made an appointment to
call at Rolsted’s office the following day.”

“That looks as though Mr. Crowley had made up his mind to write a new
will, doesn’t it?”

“That was the thought which passed through my mind at the time.”

“You say you overheard the conversation nearly a year ago,” Nancy mused.
“That was nearly two years after Mr. Crowley had made the will in favor
of the Tophams, wasn’t it?”

“Yes. It’s likely Crowley had made up his mind to change the will. I
suspect he intended to cut the Tophams out, but whether or not he did, I
have no way of knowing.”

“Mr. Rolsted is an old friend of yours, isn’t he?”

“He is. An old friend and an old college classmate.”

“Then why don’t you ask him if he ever drew up a will for Mr. Crowley?”

“That’s a rather delicate question to ask, young lady. He may tell me
it’s none of my business.”

“You know he won’t. You’re such a noted attorney that other lawyers feel
flattered when you take an interest in their cases. Will you do it?
Please!”

“I can’t promise to blunder into his office and demand the information.
Why this sudden interest in the case, Nancy?”

“Oh, I don’t know. A mystery always interests me, I guess, and it does
seem to me that someone ought to help those poor relatives.”

“You take after your old dad, I am afraid. But I’m curious to know what
mystery you have discovered.”

“If a will is missing, isn’t that a mystery?”

“If it is actually missing—yes. But it’s possible that if Crowley ever
wrote the will he changed his mind and destroyed it. He was subject to
sudden whims, you know.”

“Anyhow, I’d like to learn more about the case if I can. Will you talk
with Mr. Rolsted?”

“You are persistent, Nancy,” and Mr. Drew smiled. “Well, I suppose I
could invite him to take luncheon with me to-morrow——”

“Oh, please do,” Nancy interrupted eagerly. “That would be a splendid
opportunity to find out everything he knows about the will.”

“All right, I’ll try to do it. But I warn you not to expect startling
news.” Carson Drew glanced at his watch. “Why, it’s nearly midnight,
Nancy. We’ve been discussing this case for over an hour. Better run off
to bed now and forget the Tophams.”

“All right,” Nancy agreed somewhat reluctantly. “Don’t forget your
promise to-morrow at luncheon!”

Long after his daughter had retired, Carson Drew sat by the fire. At
last he, too, arose.

“It wouldn’t surprise me if Nancy has stumbled upon a real mystery,” he
told himself, as he snapped out the electric light and turned toward the
stairway. “Perhaps I shouldn’t encourage her to dig into it, but after
all it’s in a good cause!”

“Don’t forget your luncheon engagement with Mr. Rolsted,” Nancy Drew
reminded her father the next morning at the breakfast table.

“I’ll telephone him the first thing after I reach my office,” Carson
Drew promised. “But again I warn you not to anticipate startling news.”

“I won’t, father,” Nancy laughed. “But if I should happen to learn
something which has a bearing on the missing will, I won’t be exactly
disappointed.”

“What are your plans for the day, Nancy?”

“Oh, nothing special. I thought I would do a little shopping this
morning. And I am invited to a party one of the girls is giving in the
afternoon.”

“Then you are too busy to take luncheon with me.”

“Oh, father, you know I’ve just been dying for an invitation!” Nancy
declared, her eyes dancing. “I’m so anxious to learn something about
that will!”

“All right, if you have time, drop in at my office about twelve-thirty.
Mr. Rolsted may not accept my invitation, but if he does, we’ll try to
find out something about Josiah Crowley. Of course I don’t need to warn
you not to appear too eager for information.”

“I’ll let you do all the talking,” Nancy told him. “I’ll just keep my
ears open.”

“I’ll look for you at twelve-thirty, then.” Mr. Drew pushed back his
chair and glanced at his watch. “I must hurry now or I’ll be late
getting downtown.”

After her father had left, Nancy Drew finished her breakfast and then
went to the kitchen to consult with Hannah, the maid, concerning the
work of the day. Although only sixteen, Nancy was unusually capable, and
under her skillful direction everything ran smoothly in the Drew
household.

On the death of her mother six years before, she had taken over the
entire management of the establishment. The Drews employed one servant,
Hannah Gruen, an elderly maid of all work who had been with them for
many years.

The responsibility of the household might have weighed heavily upon
Nancy, but she was the type of girl who is capable of accomplishing a
great many things in a comparatively short length of time. She enjoyed
sports of all kinds and she found time for clubs and parties.

In school Nancy had been very popular and she boasted many friends.
People declared that she had a way of taking life very seriously without
impressing one as being the least bit serious herself.

While at school Nancy had made one particular chum, Helen Corning, of
whom we shall hear more later. She had also made two enemies, the Topham
sisters. Once she had caught Ada in wrongdoing in class and both sisters
had placed the blame on Nancy. But Helen and two others had come to
Nancy’s rescue. Since that time Ada and Isabel had been more hateful to
Nancy than ever.

“I’ll not be back for luncheon to-day,” Nancy told Hannah, as she
prepared to leave the house. “I have made out the dinner menu and
ordered the groceries, so I guess you won’t need me for a few hours.”

Leaving the house, she went to the garage where she kept her automobile.
It was a shining new blue roadster, the birthday gift of her father.

Quickly backing the automobile to the street, she set off for the
shopping district. She drove swiftly down the boulevard, and upon
reaching the more congested streets, wormed her way skillfully through
heavy traffic.

Entering a department store, she made a number of small purchases on the
main floor and then went directly to the wearing apparel section, as it
was her intention to purchase a frock suitable for the afternoon party
to which she had been invited.

Usually, Nancy found the service excellent, but this morning was an
especially busy one and an extra rush of customers had temporarily
overwhelmed the sales force.

She did not mind waiting her turn, but quietly sat down in a convenient
chair and glanced about with interest. After a time her attention was
attracted toward two girls who, like herself, were waiting for an
available saleswoman, but less patiently. Instantly, Nancy recognized
them as Ada and Isabel Topham.

They were remonstrating with the floor manager, and their voices carried
so far that she could not help hearing what they said.

“We’ve been standing here nearly ten minutes!” Ada said petulantly.
“Send a saleswoman to us immediately!”

“I am afraid I can’t,” the floor manager said regretfully. “There are a
number of others ahead of you. An extra rush of customers——”

“Perhaps you don’t know who we are!” Ada interrupted rudely.

“Indeed, I do,” the floor manager told her, with a trace of weariness.
“I will have a saleswoman here in a few moments. If you will only
wait——”

“We’re not accustomed to waiting,” Isabel Topham told him icily.

“Such service!” Ada chimed in. “Do you realize that my father owns stock
in this store? If we report your conduct to him, he could have you
discharged.”

“I’m sorry,” the harassed floor manager apologized. “But it is a rule of
the store. You must await your turn.”

Ada tossed her head and her dark eyes flashed angrily. In spite of the
expensive clothes she wore, she was anything but attractive, for she was
tall and slender to the point of being termed “skinny.” Now that her
face was distorted with anger, she was positively ugly.

Isabel, who was the pride of the Topham family, was rather pretty in a
vapid sort of way, but Nancy Drew thought that her face lacked
character. She had acquired an artificial manner of speaking which was
both irritating and amusing. It was her mother’s ambition that some day
she marry into a wealthy family, and every opportunity was given her for
a brilliant match.

The two sisters were older than Nancy, but had been in her class at
school. She had found them stupid, as well as arrogant. They had never
been popular with their classmates and had boasted few friends.

Now, as they turned from the floor manager and saw her for the first
time, Nancy bowed.

Isabel coldly returned the bow but did not speak a word of greeting. Ada
gave no indication that she had even noticed her.

“Snobs!” Nancy told herself. “The next time I won’t even bother to speak
to them!”

At that moment a saleswoman hurried toward the Topham girls and at once
they began to shower abuse upon her for her failure to wait upon them
sooner. Nancy watched them curiously as they examined the gowns which
the saleswoman brought out for their approval. Evidently, Isabel and Ada
were in an unpleasant frame of mind, for they tossed aside beautiful
creations of lace and chiffon with scarcely a second glance. They found
fault with everything.

“A very chic gown,” the saleswoman told them hopefully, as she displayed
an attractive dress. “It is a Paris model and arrived this morning.”

Ada picked it up, gave it one careless glance, and then tossed it into a
chair. The gown slipped to the floor in a crumpled mass, and, to the
horror of the saleswoman, Ada stepped on it as she turned to examine
another dress. In disgust, Nancy moved away and began to examine a rack
of dresses in another part of the room.

Presently, as she wandered back, she saw that Ada and Isabel were
leaving without having made a purchase. As they swept past, Ada brushed
against her. Instead of apologizing, she wheeled and surveyed Nancy
coldly.

“Do watch where you are going!” she said tartly.

Nancy stifled a sharp retort and made no reply. Not without amusement
she watched the Topham sisters as they flounced to the elevator.

“I don’t wonder that people say such mean things about them,” Nancy told
herself.

Her thoughts were cut short as a saleswoman offered her services. It was
the same girl who had waited upon the Topham sisters.

Nancy quickly selected a party frock of blue crepe which matched her
eyes, and went to the fitting room to try it on.

“It’s a real pleasure to serve you, Miss Drew,” the saleswoman assured
her when they were alone. “But how I dread to see the Topham sisters
come into the store! They are so unreasonable.”

“Ada and Isabel aren’t very popular,” Nancy agreed. “They seem to think
their word is law.”

The saleswoman sighed.

“And I’m afraid it will be if they get all of Josiah Crowley’s money.”
She lowered her voice. “The estate hasn’t been settled, but they’re
counting on the fortune already. I heard Miss Ada say to her sister:
‘Oh, I guess we’ll get all of old Crowley’s fortune as soon as the
lawyers stop squabbling.’ But it’s my opinion the Tophams are mightily
worried for fear somebody will show up with a later will which may do
them out of most of it.”

Nancy was far too wise to engage in gossip with the saleswoman, for she
could not tell how far anything she might say would be carried. But she
was interested in the information. The fact that the Tophams were
worried indicated to her that they were of the opinion that Josiah
Crowley had made a second will. Evidently, they were somewhat disturbed
by the claims of the other relatives.

Ordering the frock which she had purchased sent to her home, Nancy
glanced at her watch and saw that it was after twelve o’clock.

“I must hurry or I’ll be late in meeting father,” she thought, and left
the store.

She drove directly to her father’s office, and although a few minutes
ahead of the appointed time, found that he was ready to leave.

“What luck, father?” Nancy demanded eagerly, when they were alone in the
inner office. “Did Mr. Rolsted promise to take luncheon with you?”

“Yes. We are to meet him at the Royal Hotel in ten minutes. Do you still
think I should quiz him about the Crowley will?”

“Oh, I’m more than ever interested in the case, father. I can’t tell you
why, but I just seem to know that Josiah Crowley made a second will.”

“Well, your intuitions are frequently correct, Nancy,” Mr. Drew smiled.
“So I’ll do my best to find out what Mr. Rolsted knows about the case.
However, I must warn you not to appear too eager for information, or he
may suspect we have a dark motive behind the luncheon invitation.”

“I’ll be careful,” Nancy laughed.

The Royal Hotel was located less than a block away, and Nancy and her
father quickly walked the distance. As they entered the lobby they found
Mr. Rolsted there ahead of them. Carson Drew introduced his daughter,
and the three made their way to the dining room where a table had been
reserved for them.

At first the conversation centered about a variety of subjects. As the
luncheon progressed the two lawyers began to talk enthusiastically of
their college days together and finally of their profession. Nancy began
to fear that the subject of the Crowley estate never would be brought
up.

Then, over the coffee cups, Carson Drew skillfully swung the
conversation into a new channel and began to discuss strange cases which
had fallen into his hands.

“By the way, I haven’t heard the details of the Crowley case. How are
the Tophams making out? I understand the relatives are trying to break
the will.”

For a moment Mr. Rolsted remained silent, and Nancy began to think that
he did not intend to enter into a discussion of the case.

“The case wasn’t turned over to me, Carson,” the lawyer said quietly.
“But I confess I’ve followed it rather closely because of a special
interest I happen to have in Crowley. As the present will stands, I do
not believe it can be broken.”

“Then the Tophams will get the entire estate,” Mr. Drew commented.

“Yes, unless another will is uncovered.”

“Another will?” Carson Drew inquired innocently. “Then you believe
Crowley made a second one?”

Mr. Rolsted hesitated as though uncertain whether or not he should
divulge additional information, and then with a quick glance about,
lowered his voice.

“Of course, I wouldn’t want this to get out,” he began doubtfully.

“You may trust Nancy not to repeat,” Mr. Drew observed, guessing what
was in the lawyer’s mind. “I’ve found that out by experience,” and
Carson Drew smiled upon his daughter.

“Then I will say this much—it would not surprise me if another will
should come to light. The Tophams treated Crowley most unkindly after he
had made his will in their favor. About a year ago Crowley came to my
office and told me that he wanted to draw up a new will. He indicated
that he intended to cut the Tophams off without a cent. He expressed a
desire to write the will himself, and asked me a number of questions. I
told him exactly how to proceed. When he left my office he promised that
he would have me look over the document when he had drawn it up.”

“Then you actually saw the will?” Mr. Drew asked in surprise.

“No, strange to say, Crowley never came back. I don’t know whether he
drew up the will or not.”

“And if he did, there would be an excellent chance that it would not be
legal I suppose.”

“Yes, it’s a real trick to draw up a will that cannot be broken. But
Josiah Crowley was a very careful man.”

“Still, if he left even a loophole, the Tophams would drag the matter
into court.”

“Yes, it is a foregone conclusion that the Tophams will keep the fortune
whether they have a right to it or not. They have the advantage of
money, you know. I believe the other relatives have filed a claim, but
they have no proof a second will exists, and without money they cannot
hope to fight the Tophams.”

While her father and Mr. Rolsted discussed the case, Nancy Drew remained
silent, but not a word of what was said escaped her. Although she gave
no indication of her feelings, the information excited her.

After a time, Mr. Drew paid the luncheon check and the three arose and
left the dining room. Mr. Rolsted took leave of them in the lobby.

“Well, Nancy, did you find out what you wanted to know?” Carson Drew
inquired after the lawyer had disappeared.

“Oh, father, it’s just as I suspected! Mr. Crowley did make a second
will!”

“You mustn’t jump hastily at conclusions,” Mr. Drew warned her. “It’s
possible that Crowley never drew up the will at all, or if he did, he
may have destroyed it.”

“That’s possible, of course. But he had no love for the Tophams, and I
have a feeling he hid the will someplace. Oh, if only I could find it!”

“It would be as easy as looking for a needle in a haystack,” Mr. Drew
replied. “If I were you, I would forget about the case, Nancy.”

“I can’t forget about it until I’ve at least made an attempt to find out
what became of that will,” Nancy insisted stubbornly.

“All right, dig into the mystery if you like, but I’m afraid you’ve set
yourself an impossible task. I don’t see how you hope to discover what
became of the will when you haven’t even a clue.”

“I’ll find a way!” Nancy laughed. “Give me time and I’ll surprise you!”

But after she had said good-bye to her father and was slowly driving
toward home, doubt assailed her. She knew that the odds were against
her. Although she was determined to find out what had become of the
Crowley will, she was at a loss to know how to begin. As her father had
reminded her, she did not have a single clue.

“‘Where there’s a will, there’s a way,’” she quoted whimsically. “That
old proverb is doubly true in the Crowley case. If there actually is a
second will, I’m going to find it! And if I do, I hope it won’t prove to
be in the Tophams’ favor!”

“Nancy, if you haven’t planned anything special for the day, I wonder if
you would care to do a little errand for me?” inquired Carson Drew one
morning at the breakfast table.

“Why, of course,” Nancy agreed pleasantly. “What is it?”

“I have a number of legal documents which must be delivered to Judge
Hartgrave at Masonville some time before noon. I would take them myself,
but I have several important appointments this morning.”

“I’ll be glad to do the errand for you,” Nancy promised willingly. “I
can run over to Masonville in the Roadster. It isn’t more than a fifteen
mile jaunt.”

“Fine. That’s a load off my mind. You’re sure you don’t mind?”

“It’s such a wonderful day, I’ll enjoy the trip.”

Mr. Drew parted the curtains at the dining-room window and looked out.

“It is a bright day, but I can’t say I like the appearance of those
clouds in the west, Nancy. I’m afraid it may rain. You know how quickly
our storms come up.”

“I’ll start just as soon as I can get ready then. Where are the papers?”

“At the office. We can ride down together.” Nancy Drew hurried away to
find her hat and purse. Before Mr. Drew had collected his own
belongings, she had backed the roadster from the garage and was waiting
for him, at the curbing.

“I haven’t heard you mention the Crowley case lately,” Mr. Drew
commented as they rode along together. “Have you forgotten about it?”

Nancy’s face clouded.

“No, I haven’t forgotten, but I must admit I have made no progress. I
guess I’m not cut out for a detective!”

“Don’t feel discouraged, Nancy. The Crowley case would baffle a
professional.”

“I haven’t given it up yet, father. I may stumble onto a clue one of
these days.”

When they reached the law office, Nancy stopped the roadster and her
father got out. He disappeared inside the building and, returning a few
minutes later, placed a fat manilla envelope in Nancy’s hand.

“Give this to Judge Hartgrave. You know where to find him?”

“Yes, I’ll have no trouble in finding his office. I’ve frequently driven
as far as Masonville.”

Selecting the shortest route to her destination, Nancy deftly shifted
gears and was off. As she rode along the gravel road her eyes traveled
to the fields on either side of the highway. Like a true daughter of the
Middle West, Nancy Drew took pride in the fertility of her State and saw
beauty in a crop of waving green corn as well as in the rolling hills
and the expanse of prairie land.

More than once Nancy glanced anxiously at the sky. The sun shone down on
the gravel road with dazzling intensity, but a large black cloud had
settled in the west. Still, it did not appear to be rolling up very
fast, and Nancy told herself that there was no need to worry.

“It won’t rain for an hour or two, and by that time I’ll be home,” she
thought.

Nancy took her time on the road and it was nearly eleven o’clock when
she finally drove into Masonville. She went at once to Judge Hartgrave’s
office but was informed that he had gone to the courthouse. Nancy knew
that the legal papers which she had been sent to deliver were important,
and rather than leave them with the office girl she set off in search of
the judge.

She had considerable trouble in finding him, and it was nearly twelve
o’clock when at last she delivered the manilla envelope into his hands.
Learning that Nancy was the daughter of Carson Drew, Judge Hartgrave
insisted that she take luncheon at his home before returning to River
Heights.

Nancy accepted the invitation and spent a very pleasant hour in company
with the judge and his wife. When at last she had insisted that she must
start for home, it was after one-thirty.

“I have half a notion to take a different route back,” she told Judge
Hartgrave, as she stepped into her blue roadster. “It’s a beautiful
drive on the River Road. But the trip will take longer, and I am afraid
it may rain.”

Judge Hartgrave looked up at the sky, but, in spite of a general
murkiness, the sun was shining.

“Oh, I don’t believe it will rain for an hour or two,” he said
optimistically. “That big cloud is only bluffing.”

“Then I’ll take the River Road,” Nancy decided.

She said good-bye and started the motor. Soon she was spinning along the
road which wound in and out along the Muskoka River. Nancy met few
automobiles, for the road was infrequently traveled. She did not hurry,
but took time to enjoy the scenery.

Overhanging trees with dense foliage shaded the road and formed a tunnel
which all but blotted out the sky. Presently, as Nancy drove into a
clearing, she was astonished to see how dark it had become.

Evidently, the big black cloud which had attracted her attention earlier
in the day was no longer bluffing. It had grown rapidly in size and was
spreading over the sky in an alarming fashion. As Nancy Drew watched,
the sun vanished as though by magic.

“How foolish of me to take this road,” she chided herself. “I’m going to
be caught in the storm! There isn’t a chance that I can make it!”

Although the River Road was perfectly safe in dry weather, Nancy knew
that a little rain would make it dangerously slippery. Then, too, the
road was little traveled, and in case of accident she could not depend
upon passing motorists for aid. If her roadster slipped into a ditch, it
would be necessary to walk miles for help.

Few persons lived along the River Road, for the land was not considered
valuable. In the spring of the year, with the arrival of heavy rains,
the Muskoka River sometimes overflowed its banks and spread over the
farmland, destroying the newly planted crops. For this reason, the
district was not a popular one and the land was held by poor folk.

“If only I can find a farmhouse where I can drive in until the storm
passes!” Nancy thought desperately.

The sky was now entirely overcast and in among the trees it was as dark
as night. Nancy could not see the road distinctly, and switched on the
headlights of her roadster. A brisk breeze began to stir the trees, and
the leaves seemed to whisper a fearful warning of the storm to come. A
feeling of uneasiness took possession of Nancy Drew.

She stepped on the accelerator and the roadster fairly leaped forward as
though it, too, understood the need for haste. Suddenly, a flash of
forked lightning coursed across the sky and was followed by a loud clap
of thunder.

“That was close!” Nancy murmured uncomfortably.

She bent low over the wheel and took the curves as fast as she dared. An
unexpected gust of wind struck the road and blew dust in every
direction. As the cold air struck her, Nancy realized that the storm was
almost upon her. Already, she could see the rain sweeping down upon her
from the far hills.

Frantically, Nancy glanced about for a possible shelter. On down the
road a short distance, she caught sight of an old farmhouse and a
dilapidated barn which stood near the highway.

“If only I can get there before the rain strikes me!” Nancy thought
anxiously.

But the storm would hold off no longer. Large drops of rain began to
splash against the windshield, slowly at first, then faster and faster.
The sky had taken on a yellowish cast.

Then, unexpectedly, came a second flash of lightning, and simultaneously
a deluge of rain.

Nancy turned on the windshield wiper, but the rain was blinding in its
violence. It was impossible to see more than a few feet ahead of the
automobile, and almost in an instant the road had dissolved into a sea
of mud. Nancy had been caught in a number of storms, but never one like
this. She feared that she would slip into a ditch before she could reach
the shelter of the barn.

Then, at the side of the road, the barn loomed up, and in relief Nancy
saw that the doors were wide open. Without an instant’s hesitation, she
headed straight for the building and drove in.

[Illustration: _The Secret of the Old Clock._     _Frontispiece (Page
30)_

“WITHOUT AN INSTANT’S HESITATION, SHE HEADED STRAIGHT FOR THE BUILDING
AND DROVE IN.”]

Safely inside, she turned off the motor and the lights, and with a sigh
of relief sank back against the cushions.

“Well, you got in just in time,” said a pleasant voice behind her.

Startled, Nancy Drew turned quickly and saw a girl of her own age
regarding her with interest. Even as the stranger spoke, the storm broke
in full violence. A cold blast of wind rattled the barn doors and sent a
sheet of rain inside.

“I beg your pardon,” Nancy apologized, as she climbed from the roadster.
“It wasn’t very polite of me to run in here the way I did.”

“You’re more than welcome to the shelter, I am sure,” the stranger told
her kindly. “I’m afraid we haven’t much else to offer.”

In the semidarkness, Nancy studied the girl curiously. She had been
impressed with her cultured voice and manner, and now she noted that her
clothing, while not expensive, was neat and well made. The girl did not
appear to be the daughter of a farmer who would live on this poor land,
yet she seemed to fit into her background.

“It looks to me as though we’re in for a real storm,” the girl said and
smiled pleasantly. She glanced outside at the pelting rain. “I’m afraid
you’ll be forced to remain here for some time.”

“So long as I’m not out in the rain I don’t mind,” Nancy replied
quickly. “That is, if you don’t object.”

“Object?” The girl spoke impulsively. “Oh, you can’t understand how
eager we are for visitors. Grace and I seldom have a chance to talk with
anyone our own age. Sometimes a whole week will go by, and we won’t see
anyone but the postman.”

Nancy Drew had a natural talent for unearthing interesting stories, and
now a sixth sense seemed to tell her that she had encountered something
unusual. She was eager to learn more about the girl and her reason for
leading such an isolated life.

“I must thank you for your hospitality,” Nancy said, with a friendly
smile. “After all, perhaps the storm has done us both a real favor in
throwing us together.”

At the moment, Nancy Drew little dreamed that the next few hours were to
reveal the truth of her polite utterance.

“The storm is getting worse every minute,” Nancy Drew’s companion
observed.

Nancy followed her to the barn door and looked out. The rain was now
coming down in torrents, and as the girls stood in the doorway a sudden
gust of cold wind blew a sheet of water into their faces.

“Oh, let’s get back where it’s dry,” Nancy laughed. “This is terrible!”

“It’s getting cold, too,” her companion announced, with chattering
teeth. “Why not come into the house with me? It’s far more comfortable
there. And unless I’m mistaken, this storm will continue for an hour or
so.”

“I don’t like to trouble you——”

“Oh, it’s no trouble at all. Grace will never forgive me if I don’t
bring you inside.” She turned to Nancy with an apologetic smile. “I
guess I forgot to introduce myself. My name is Allie—Allie Horner.”

“And I am Nancy Drew.”

“Not the daughter of Carson Drew, the noted lawyer?”

“Yes,” Nancy admitted, in surprise. “Do you know my father?”

“Oh, no. But I guess everyone has heard of him.” Allie Horner began to
take off the raincoat which she wore. “Here, take this. And I’ll find
you a pair of rubber boots.”

“I don’t want to take your raincoat,” Nancy protested. “What will you
wear?”

“Oh, I have an old coat hanging here on a nail. I’ll use that. Anyway,
the rain won’t hurt my dress.”

Under protest, Nancy donned the raincoat and put on a pair of rubber
boots which were several sizes too large for her. She made such a
grotesque picture that the two girls could not help but laugh. Then they
closed the barn doors.

“Now!” Allie directed. “Let’s make a dash for it!”

Hand in hand they splashed through the mud toward the farmhouse. As they
ran, a vivid flash of lightning momentarily illuminated the sky and
caused the girls to cringe. The rain pelted down steadily, and the
atmosphere was much colder than it had been ten minutes before.

“If it gets any colder we’ll have hail,” Allie chattered, as the two
girls reached the shelter of the porch.

Dropping their muddy boots outside, Allie flung open the door, and they
entered a warm kitchen.

As the door closed behind them, an older girl who was bending over the
kitchen range turned toward them in surprise.

“Grace, I’ve brought you a visitor,” Allie said quickly. “Miss Drew, I
want you to meet my sister. She’s the mainstay of our little family.”

Grace Horner cordially acknowledged the introduction and greeted Nancy
with a warm smile. She was tall and slender, as was her sister, with
dark hair and thoughtful brown eyes. Nancy judged that she was at least
four years older than Allie. Her face was rather serious, and it was
evident that responsibility had fallen upon her shoulders at an early
age.

Nancy was at once attracted to both Grace and Allie, and responded to
their cordial welcome.

“It’s nice of you to take me in this way,” she told them.

“Mercy! It’s a pleasure for us,” Grace assured her. “We don’t see a girl
of our own age once in a month unless we go to Masonville, and our
visits there aren’t very frequent, Miss Drew.”

“Oh, please call me by my first name,” Nancy begged. “Everyone does.”

The three girls were soon laughing and talking together as though they
had always been friends. Nancy knew that she was going to like the
Horner girls, and it was evident they were delighted with her.

Presently, Grace deftly removed a cake from the oven and set it on the
table to cool.

“Let’s go into the living room,” she suggested. “My cake is done, so I
don’t need to watch it. I’ll give you a piece before you go, Nancy.”

“And Grace’s cakes are the real thing,” Allie declared. “I’m not much of
a cook myself. I’d rather be outdoors.”

“We don’t wish you any bad luck, Nancy,” Grace laughed as she led Nancy
into the next room. “But Allie and I don’t care how long it storms!”

“Neither do I, so long as I get home before dark,” Nancy replied.

Although the living room was warm and comfortable, it was nearly bare of
furniture. The floors had been painted and were scantily covered with
handmade rag rugs. With the exception of an old fashioned divan, an
inexpensive table, a few straight-back chairs, and an old wood stove
which furnished heat, there was little in the room. However, dainty
white curtains covered the windows, and Nancy realized that although the
Horner girls were poor they had tried hard to make their home
attractive.

“Surely, you two girls don’t live here alone, do you?” Nancy inquired.

Allie nodded.

“Grace and I have been living here ever since father died. That was two
years ago. Mother passed away just before that,” the girl added with a
slight catch in her voice.

“But how do you manage? It must be dreadfully hard for two girls to run
a farm by themselves,” said Nancy, in wonder.

“Our farm isn’t very large now,” Grace said quietly. “We have only a few
acres.”

“I know you wonder how we live, but are too polite to ask,” Allie broke
in. “Grace helps a dressmaker at Masonville whenever she can get work.
She makes all our clothes, too. And I raise chickens.”

“Chickens?” Nancy asked, in surprise. “Can you make much at that?”

“Well, it all depends. This year the market hasn’t been so high as
usual, and the price of eggs has dropped, too. But I enjoy the work, and
I could make it pay if only I could afford to start a flock of white
leghorns.”

“Allie is a regular outdoor girl,” Grace explained, with a smile. “We
divide our work. I attend to the house, but she would rather be
outside.”

“We get along very nicely in the summer,” Allie went on. “We raise
vegetables and have enough for our own use. But in the winter it’s hard.
I don’t know how we’ll manage this year.”

“We’ll find a way, Allie,” Grace told her, with a brave smile. “We
always have.”

She arose from her chair and turned to Nancy.

“I’m sure you’re not interested in our misfortunes. It’s true that we’re
poor, but we can still offer a guest a cup of tea. Excuse me while I
make it.”

It was on the tip of Nancy’s tongue to protest, but she checked the
words just in time. She knew that Allie and Grace were proud and that to
refuse their hospitality would hurt their feelings.

“I wish I could help them,” Nancy thought. “But if I offer to pay for
the tea they will be offended. Perhaps later on I can engage Grace to
make a dress for me.”

In a few minutes Grace returned to the living room bearing a tray which
had been covered with a clean white napkin. She poured the tea and
served the cake with as much poise as though she were gracing an elegant
drawing room.

“I never tasted more delicious cake in all my life,” Nancy said warmly.

The three girls chattered over the tea cups and watched the rain beat
against the windows. Presently, as Nancy noticed an unusual picture on
the wall, she commented on its beauty.

“Uncle Josiah gave it to us,” Allie told her. “If he were only alive
now, things would be different.”

At the mention of the name, Nancy started. Could it be that Allie
referred to Josiah Crowley? It was very unlikely, she decided, yet only
the week before her father had told her that there were two girls living
on the River Road who should have figured in the will. The relationship
would be worth investigating, Nancy told herself.

“Then your uncle is dead?” she inquired sympathetically.

“Josiah Crowley wasn’t really our uncle,” Grace replied. “But we loved
him as much as though he were a relative.” Her voice broke and for a
moment she could not go on. “He lived next door to us—that was when
mother and father were alive. All of our misfortunes seemed to come at
once.”

“He was the dearest man you ever saw,” Allie added, taking up the story.
“Some people thought him queer, but you never minded his peculiar ways
after you knew him. He was so good and kind to us. We were neighbors for
years—until the Tophams induced him to live with them. After that,
everything was changed.”

“But he never liked it with the Tophams,” Grace declared. “They weren’t
kind to him, and he used to sneak off to visit us. Didn’t he, Allie?”

“Yes, he often said that we seemed like his own children. He brought us
so many nice gifts. We loved him for himself and not his money, but
after our parents died he hinted that he intended to see to it that we
never came to want. I remember the very last day we ever saw him alive,
he told us that he intended to mention us in the will. ‘I have planned a
big surprise for you girls. You’ll see it in my will.’ Those were his
very words.”

“And then the Tophams got everything,” Grace said somewhat bitterly. “It
isn’t that we were expecting any of the money, but it does seem unfair
that the entire fortune should go to them. They never cared a snap of
their fingers for Uncle Josiah, and I don’t believe he intended to leave
his money to them.”

“Perhaps you were mentioned in the will they say can’t be found,” Nancy
suggested.

Grace and Allie exchanged significant glances and gravely nodded.

“That’s just what we think,” Allie announced.

“Can’t something be done about it? It seems only fair that you should
have your inheritance.”

“I’m afraid there’s nothing we can do,” Grace said doubtfully. “You see,
although we are certain a will was made in our favor, we have no actual
proof. We haven’t enough money to fight the case.”

“The Tophams ought to do something for you girls.”

“The Tophams?” Allie laughed scornfully. “They wouldn’t give us a cent.”

For some time Allie and Grace Horner talked of Josiah Crowley and his
queer ways. To Nancy it was evident that the girls had loved the old man
a great deal.

Presently, as the rain ceased and the sun threatened to break through
the clouds, Nancy arose to leave.

“Your story has interested me a great deal,” she assured the Horner
girls. “It’s possible my father can do something to help you—he is a
lawyer you know.”

“Oh, we weren’t asking for help!” Grace interposed quickly. “I don’t
know why we happened to tell you so much.”

“I’m glad that you did, and if I can I want to help you. If my father
asks you to come to his office in River Heights will you do it?”

“Why, yes, I suppose so,” Grace admitted slowly. “But we have told you
about everything we know concerning the will.”

“My father is a wonder at unearthing hidden facts,” Nancy declared.

“It’s kind of you to tell your father about our case,” Allie broke in.
“We’d be so grateful if something could be done. We don’t want a cent
that doesn’t belong to us, but it does seem as though we should have
received a small inheritance.”

“Don’t build up your hopes until after I’ve talked with my father,”
Nancy advised them as she turned toward the door. “If anything can be
done I promise I’ll let you know.”

Although the rain was no longer falling, the River Road was a sea of
mud, and before Nancy Drew started for home, the Horner girls insisted
on helping her put chains on the rear wheels of the roadster.

“You’ll never make it to the gravel unless you do,” Grace advised her.
“The River Road is terribly slippery in wet weather. You’re sure you
want to attempt it? We’d love to have you stay with us until to-morrow.”

“Oh, I’ll have only two miles to go before I strike gravel,” Nancy
returned. “I’ll make it all right. But before I go I do wish you would
let me pay for all the trouble I have caused you.”

“We couldn’t think of accepting money,” Grace said quietly.

“It’s been fun having you here,” Allie added.

At last, after thanking the Horner sisters for their hospitality, Nancy
told them good-bye. Allie and Grace watched her until she had backed the
Roadster from the barn and was safely on the road.

“You’re taking a big chance in this mud,” called out Allie after her.

“If you have any trouble, come back here,” added Grace. “That is, if you
can get back.”

“Don’t skid into a tree.”

“Or into a ditch—that would be worse.”

“What are you trying to do, make me nervous?” demanded Nancy, but with a
smile on her face.

“No; we only want to see you get home safely,” answered Grace, and by
that time the car was so far on its way no more could be said.

Once on her way Nancy had little trouble, for she was a skillful driver.
The mud was heavy, but although the roadster slipped about she managed
to keep it in the road. Nevertheless, she was relieved when at last she
reached the main graveled highway.

“I’ll stop at father’s office,” she decided, as she drove into River
Heights. “I want to tell him about my adventure right away.”

She parked the car and surveyed it rather ruefully as she climbed out.

“Poor thing needs a bath! But even if I did get into mud, it was worth
it. Otherwise I would never have found out about the Horner girls.”

As Nancy was admitted to her father’s private office, he arose from his
chair to greet her.

“I’m glad you’re here safe and sound,” he declared, in relief. “I’ve
been worried ever since that storm came up. I telephoned the house and
Hannah said you weren’t back. It gave me a bad scare.”

“I had a little adventure,” Nancy announced, with an important air.

Quickly, she told of her meeting with the Horner sisters and what she
had learned concerning the Crowley will.

“Allie and Grace Horner are as poor as church mice, but they’re proud,
too,” Nancy ended. “If only we could do something to help them! They
deserve a portion of the Crowley estate, but they’ll never get it unless
someone takes a hand.”

“From what you say it looks as though Crowley really did make a will in
their favor,” Carson Drew commented thoughtfully. “I never had any
particular liking for Richard Topham, and I’ll admit it would please me
to see him lose the money. I’ll be glad to do anything I can to help the
Horner girls, Nancy. We might invite them to the house for a little
conference.”

“I was hoping you would suggest that.”

“You say the girls have no idea what became of the will?”

“They never saw it.”

“Well, it is possible that by talking with them we may learn something
which may serve as a clue.”

“I’ll invite them to the house to-morrow if you want me to,” Nancy said
quickly. “You’re so clever at asking questions, and the Horner girls
will do anything in their power to help.”

Mr. Drew studied his desk calendar for a moment.

“All right. But make it day after to-morrow afternoon at three. I have
no appointment for that hour.”

Now that she had accomplished her purpose, Nancy gave her father a hug
and fairly danced toward the door.

“I knew you’d try to help them,” she called back over her shoulder. “Now
that you’ve promised, I’ll scamper off and let you get your work done!”

Nancy’s interest in the Crowley case had intensified since her chance
meeting with the Horner girls, and it was with impatience that she
awaited the conference.

All the day of the appointment she kept watching the clock, wondering if
Allie and Grace would keep the engagement. She had sent them the
invitation and they had promised to come, but Nancy was a trifle uneasy,
especially as the hour of three approached and the two girls had not
arrived.

“I don’t see why they don’t come,” she fretted.

The words were scarcely out of her mouth when the doorbell jangled.

“That must be the girls now,” she cried, as she hurried to open the
door.

It was indeed Allie and Grace Horner. Nancy greeted them
enthusiastically and, ushering them into the comfortable study,
introduced her father. At first the Horner sisters were rather ill at
ease, but after a few minutes they relaxed and began to talk frankly.

“Tell me about Josiah Crowley,” Carson Drew suggested. “I understand
that he was rather a peculiar man.”

“Oh, he was,” Allie began impulsively. “I’ve seen him go about hunting
for his spectacles when they were on his nose all the time.”

“Did he ever hide things?” Mr. Drew inquired.

“Did he?” Allie laughed. “He was always putting things away in what he
called a safe place. The place was usually so safe that he could never
find it again!”

“Did he ever say anything which would lead you to believe that he had
hidden a will?”

Allie shook her head.

“Not that I can remember.”

“Why, he did, too!” Grace broke in. “One day when he was at our house he
got to talking about the Tophams and the way they were trying to get his
money. ‘I guess they’ll be fooled all right when they find out I’ve made
another will,’ he said with that odd little chuckle of his. ‘This time
I’m not going to trust it to any lawyer. I’ll put it away in a place
that I know will be safe.’”

“That’s right,” Allie agreed. “I had forgotten.”

“Was Crowley living with the Tophams at the time he told you this?”
Carson Drew asked quickly.

Grace nodded.

“Do you think it possible that he hid the will somewhere in the house?”

“You mean at the Tophams?” Grace inquired. “Of course I have no way of
knowing, but it’s my opinion that he did.”

Nancy and her father exchanged quick glances as the same thought
occurred to them. Perhaps the Tophams had discovered the will and
already had destroyed it!

Carson Drew asked a few more questions. The Horner girls were eager to
help, but they were unable to furnish additional information which had a
direct bearing on the missing will. After Nancy had served tea, they
thanked Carson Drew for his interest in them, and arose to depart.

“If I find that I am able to help you in any way, I will do so,” Mr.
Drew told the sisters as he escorted them to the door. “And of course
there will be no charge for my services. However, unless the will is
found there is really very little that can be done.”

After Allie and Grace had left, Nancy turned inquiring eyes upon her
father.

“Charming girls,” he commented, “and undoubtedly deserving.”

“Then you’ll help them?” Nancy demanded eagerly.

“I am afraid there is nothing I can do, Nancy,” Mr. Drew returned
regretfully. “The will is probably lost forever. It wouldn’t surprise me
if it had been destroyed.”

“You mean—the Tophams?”

Carson Drew nodded.

“The same thought came to me,” Nancy declared. “It would be just like
them to destroy it if it fell into their hands! They have no scruples
whatsoever.”

“Of course we have no proof the Tophams did away with the will, Nancy.
It would be very unwise to suggest such a thing to the Horner girls.
They deserve a portion of the estate, but without the will nothing can
be done. If they took the matter to court they wouldn’t have a chance to
win.”

“I suppose you’re right,” Nancy admitted unwillingly.

But while she dropped the subject for the time being, Nancy Drew did not
forget the Horner sisters. She continued to hope that by some queer
twist of fate they would come into their rightful inheritance.

“If the will has been destroyed I don’t see how anyone can help them,”
she told herself rather unhappily. “But until I’m sure of it, I’m not
going to give up!” She squared her shoulders with determination. “I’ll
find some way to discover what became of the will!”

In spite of Nancy Drew’s firm decision to assist the Horner girls, the
days slipped by and, try as she would, she could think of no way to
discover whether or not the missing Crowley will had fallen into the
hands of the Tophams. Although she seldom discussed the case with her
father, he knew that she was troubled.

“You’re worrying about the Horner girls,” he observed one day. “I am
afraid you are taking their misfortunes too seriously. There is nothing
you can do without the will, and you had best forget about it. Why,
you’ve scarcely been out of the house since the Horner girls were here.
Go shopping, or anything, to take your mind from the subject.”

“I have been thinking about Allie and Grace,” Nancy admitted, with a
rueful smile. “I was so sure I could do something for them.”

“Give your mind a rest and perhaps you’ll have an inspiration,” Mr. Drew
encouraged her kindly.

“All right, I’ll take your advice and go shopping, though I really
haven’t a thing to buy. The fresh air will do me good, I suppose.”

After luncheon, Nancy left the house and made her way toward the
business section of River Heights. The walk was a long one, but she took
it at a brisk pace. Nancy naturally was athletic, and as she swung along
more than one passerby turned to look after her in admiration.

After “window shopping” for a time, she wandered into a department store
more from curiosity than because she had anything to buy. She moved
about aimlessly, gazing at whatever struck her fancy.

Suddenly Nancy’s attention centered upon two girls who were hurrying
down the aisle ahead of her. She stopped short and stared. Though their
backs were turned, she had recognized them.

“Ada and Isabel Topham! I’m sure I don’t want to tag them around! I’ll
just slip down another aisle!”

But Nancy Drew never carried the thought into action, for at that very
moment she saw Ada brush carelessly against a counter of expensive
vases. As her sleeve caught, a large fragile bowl was swept to the
floor. In horror Nancy heard the crash and saw the bowl break into a
dozen pieces.

As Ada looked down upon the wreckage, a slight flush mounted to her
cheeks. Then with a toss of her head, she started to move on.

“Miss, I am afraid I must ask you to pay for the bowl,” a saleswoman
interposed politely.

Ada wheeled angrily and stared at the saleswoman insolently.

“I’ll not pay for it!” she snapped. “I didn’t break it!”

“But, Miss, I saw you knock it off the counter,” the saleswoman
protested.

By this time the floor manager had arrived upon the scene, and a number
of shoppers had gathered about Ada and the salesgirl. Nancy likewise
drew closer.

“This impudent girl claims I broke a vase,” Ada stormed, addressing the
floor manager. “I wasn’t even near the counter at the time! However, I
did see her knock it to the floor herself. Isn’t that so, Isabel?”

Solemnly, Isabel agreed to the untruth.

The floor manager looked doubtfully from the Topham sisters to the
saleswoman. He realized that it would be a serious error to accuse
well-to-do customers falsely, and for that reason he was inclined to
give the Topham girls the benefit of the doubt. He stooped over and
examined the fragments of the bowl.

“Someone must pay for the damage,” he said severely. “This is an
expensive imported bowl.”

“Then let your clerk pay for it out of her salary,” Ada retorted. “If
she hadn’t been so stupid she wouldn’t have broken the vase!”

The saleswoman was too bewildered to take her own part and Nancy saw
that the floor manager was in a dilemma. As she sensed that he was about
to exonerate Ada from all blame, she stepped forward.

“You must be mistaken, Miss Topham,” she said quietly. “I am certain the
saleswoman did not break the bowl, for I saw the accident myself.”

“What business have you to interfere?” Ada demanded harshly, wheeling
upon Nancy.

“Perhaps it isn’t my business, but I can’t permit you to accuse this
girl of something she didn’t do.”

“You saw the accident, Miss?” the floor manager questioned.

“Yes. As Miss Topham walked by the counter, her sleeve caught on the
vase.”

“It isn’t true,” Ada snapped. “But I’m tired of this silly argument. How
much do you want for your vase?”

The floor manager studied a price list.

“Fifty dollars.”

“What?” Ada fairly screamed. “You want fifty dollars for that old bowl?
I’ll never pay it!”

“The vase was imported from Italy, Miss, and I am afraid you must pay
the price asked.”

“Do you know who I am?” Ada inquired loftily.

“I think everyone in the city knows about the Richard Tophams,” the
floor manager returned wearily.

“My father owns——”

“He doesn’t own this store,” the man interrupted, with growing
impatience. “If you refuse to pay for the vase I shall be forced to turn
you over to the authorities.”

“You wouldn’t dare!” Ada gasped. “Never in all my life have I been
insulted like this!”

Isabel, who was slightly more reasonable than her sister, now held a
whispered conference with Ada.

“All right, I’ll pay for the bowl,” Ada decided, as she took out her
checkbook. “But let me warn you the matter won’t be dropped here.”

She turned upon Nancy Drew and eyed her coldly.

“I’m not through with you either, young lady! You’ll pay for this
outrage!”

Nancy made no reply but continued to smile pleasantly, an act which
further enraged the Topham sisters. Hastily settling for the damage Ada
had done, they sailed grandly out of the store.

Gratefully, the saleswoman thanked Nancy.

“You don’t know how I appreciated the way you took my part. I couldn’t
have paid for the bowl, and if you hadn’t said what you did the floor
manager probably would have discharged me.”

“I saw her break the bowl and I was determined to see justice done.
There is my name and address—if you need it,” and Nancy handed the
woman her card.

“I’m afraid you have made enemies by taking my part.”

Nancy shrugged her shoulders indifferently.

“It really doesn’t matter. The Topham girls were never my friends.”

“But they may try to get even with you. They’re very spiteful.”

“Let them try!” Nancy smiled. “However, I don’t believe there is any
need to worry. Their talk is mostly bluff.”

Lightly, Nancy Drew dismissed the subject, and, as she found she was
being regarded with curiosity and admiration by those who had witnessed
the scene, left the store. She walked slowly toward the park.

“It makes my blood fairly boil every time I think of Ada and Isabel
Topham getting all of the Crowley fortune,” she told herself, with
feeling. “Especially when Grace and Allie Horner need the money so
badly. The way Ada tried to accuse that shopgirl was disgusting.”

Nancy crossed the public park and paused for a moment at the drinking
fountain. As she glanced up she saw that unwittingly she had selected
the path Isabel and Ada Topham had taken. Upon leaving the department
store they, too, had gone to the park and were now seated upon a bench
engaged in earnest conversation. Their heads were close together, and,
from the expression on their faces, Nancy suspected that they were
discussing her. Unless she retraced her steps it would be necessary to
pass directly in front of them.

“If they see me they are certain to say something mean,” Nancy thought,
“and if they do I’ll be sure to lose my temper. I know!” she decided
impulsively. “I’ll take the path through the bushes and avoid them. I
can pass behind that bench and they’ll never notice me!”

Ada and Isabel were so engrossed in their conversation that they failed
to notice Nancy’s approach. Chuckling to herself, Nancy left the
sidewalk and quietly made her way down the path which was shaded with
overhanging bushes.

She had no intention of attempting to overhear what the Topham sisters
were saying, but as she noiselessly approached the bench where they were
sitting, two words reached her ears, causing her to pause involuntarily.

Ada was speaking, and the phrase which Nancy had accidently overheard
was “the will.” In a flash, her suspicions were aroused. She
comprehended the significance of the phrase.

“It must be Josiah Crowley’s will they’re talking about,” she reasoned.
“Perhaps they know something about the missing will! They may reveal
what became of it!”

With the instinct of a detective, Nancy Drew crept cautiously closer.
The bushes were thick, and by crouching low behind the bench she was
able to hear without being seen.

Oh, if only she might learn something which would prove that the Tophams
had deprived the Horner girls of their inheritance!

While Nancy Drew eagerly waited, scarcely daring to breathe naturally
lest her presence be detected, Ada began to speak.

“Well, if there should happen to be another will, we may be dumped,” she
said sourly.

“I don’t believe Josiah Crowley ever made such a will,” Isabel replied,
in so low a tone that Nancy scarcely caught the words.

“Evidently Nancy Drew does, or she wouldn’t be taking such an interest
in those Horner girls,” Ada returned. “I know she had them at her house
last week, because I was passing and saw them go in. How I hate that
girl! If she should get her father interested, he might dig up another
will.”

“Even if another will does turn up, we can trust dad to take care of
it,” Isabel commented dryly.

“You mean he would——”

“Never mind what I mean,” Isabel insinuated darkly. “Mother and dad
wouldn’t be simple enough to let that money get away from us. It’s ours
by right, anyhow. Didn’t Josiah Crowley live on us?”

“Yes, we ought to have all of the money after enduring him for nearly
three years. Just the same, I don’t like the way Nancy Drew has taken up
with the Horner girls. She always did have a way of nosing into things
she had no business to find out!”

“Oh, pooh for her,” Isabel scoffed. “Let her try to discover anything
she likes. The money was given to us fairly enough.”

The conversation ended abruptly as Isabel and Ada arose from the bench
and walked on down the street. Nancy waited until they were out of sight
and then emerged from the bushes.

“There may be a chance to find that missing will after all,” she
reasoned, as she sank down on the bench vacated by Isabel and Ada.

Nancy had always been convinced that Josiah Crowley had made a second
will. However, since her talk with the Horner girls, she had shared her
father’s opinion that the document had fallen into the hands of the
Tophams only to be destroyed. This conviction had discouraged her.

Now the information which she had gleaned from the snatch of overhead
conversation, gave her new hope. From what Isabel and Ada had said, she
was led to believe that if Josiah Crowley had made a second will, the
Tophams were as ignorant as herself concerning its whereabouts.

“Anyway, it’s encouraging to know the will hasn’t been destroyed,” Nancy
told herself. “But there’s one thing certain. If the Tophams ever get
their hands on it, they’ll take care it never comes to light. From what
Isabel and Ada said I judge they’re beginning to realize their position
is anything but secure. If I’m ever to find that will, I must get busy
before they beat me to it!”

Nancy Drew possessed her father’s liking for a mystery, and she
delighted in a battle of wits when championing a worthy cause. Carson
Drew had often remarked that he enjoyed the detective work of his cases
better than the court work, but Nancy knew he was too busy with his own
cases to devote much attention to the missing Crowley will. If anything
were done to help the Horner girls win their inheritance, she must
accomplish it herself.

As Nancy reviewed the facts of the case, it seemed to her that she must
have overlooked a possible clue. Never had a mystery appeared more
baffling.

For nearly ten minutes Nancy sat lost in deep thought. Then, with a cry
of delight she sprang to her feet.

“How stupid of me not to think of it before! The Horner girls aren’t the
only ones who should have figured in the will. There were a number of
relatives, and father said that they filed a claim, too. I wonder who
they are. If I could talk with them, it’s possible I might learn
something that would have a bearing on the case.”

Convinced that the inspiration was a happy one, she set off toward her
father’s office. He was engaged in an important conference when she
arrived, and Nancy was forced to wait ten minutes before she was
admitted to the inner office.

“Now what?” her father asked, smiling as she burst in upon him. “Is it a
new dress you want!”

Nancy’s cheeks were flushed and her eyes danced with excitement.

“Don’t try to tease me,” she protested. “I’ve stumbled onto something
important, and I want information!”

“At your service, Nancy,” Mr. Drew said. “But if it’s about that Crowley
case, I’ve told you everything I know.”

Nancy poured out the story of her encounter with the Topham sisters in
the department store and told of the conversation she had overheard in
the public park. Mr. Drew listened with interest until she had finished.

“And now what is it you want?” he asked gravely.

“I thought if I went to those other relatives I might be able to learn
something which may help solve the mystery.”

“A good idea, Nancy.”

“But I don’t know their names, and that’s why I came to you.”

“I wish I could help you, but I’m afraid I can’t,” Mr. Drew said
regretfully.

Nancy’s face fell.

“Wait a minute!” he called, as she turned to leave. “I can’t supply the
names you want, but I think I can tell you where to find them.”

“Where!”

“At the courthouse. They should be on file.” He glanced at his watch and
frowned. “But I’m afraid it is too late to go there this afternoon.”

“Oh, and I’m anxious to find out right away,” Nancy declared in
disappointment. “If I delay even a single day the Tophams may get ahead
of me and find that will.”

Suddenly her face brightened as she thought of something.

“I know! I’ll jump into the roadster and run out and have a talk with
the Horner girls. They should be able to furnish me the information.”

“You can try them, at least.”

“That’s just what I’ll do,” Nancy decided, as she turned again toward
the door.

“Just a minute,” Carson Drew stopped her. “I wonder if you realize just
what you are getting into, Nancy?”

“Why, what do you mean?”

“Only this. Detective work isn’t always the safest occupation in which
to engage. I happen to know that Richard Topham is an unpleasant man
when crossed. If you actually succeed in learning anything which may
help the Horner girls, you are certain to have the Tophams in your
wool.”

“I’m not afraid of them, father.”

“Good!” Mr. Drew exclaimed. “I was hoping you would say that. I’m glad
you have the courage of your convictions, but I didn’t want you to march
off into battle without a knowledge of what, undoubtedly, you will be up
against.”

“Battle?”

“Yes, battle. Rest assured the Tophams won’t give up the fortune without
a bitter struggle. However, if they attempt to make serious trouble, I
promise to deal with them myself. I only wish I had the time to help you
find the will.”

“And if I find it?”

“I’ll take the matter into court.”

“Oh, thank you! There’s no one like you in all the world.”

Nancy moved toward the door.

“I may not get back until rather late,” she threw back over her
shoulder. “I have a feeling I may discover a real clue to-day, and if I
do, I’m going to trail it down!”

With characteristic impetuosity, she darted from the room, permitting
the office door to bang behind her.

After leaving her father’s office, Nancy Drew went directly home.
Quickly backing her roadster from the garage, she set off down the River
Road in the direction of the old farmhouse where the Horner girls lived.

Before leaving the main highway, Nancy glanced anxiously at the sky and
was relieved that no clouds were visible.

“After my last experience, I don’t intend to get caught in another
storm,” she admonished herself.

The recent rain had made the roads rough, and Nancy bumped about in the
roadster rather uncomfortably. At last, however, she came within sight
of the farmhouse, and as she viewed it from a distance noticed that it
was even older and more run-down than she had thought.

The house was large and rambling, but apparently it had not been painted
in years. Shingles were falling from the roof, and the porches sagged.
As Nancy’s eyes traveled to the old barn, she wondered how it had
managed to survive the recent storm.

“If Allie and Grace Horner only had money, they could make the place
attractive,” she thought as she drove through the open gate.

Squawking chickens fled before her as she stopped the roadster in the
barnyard and switched off the engine. Springing lightly from the car,
she ran up the walk toward the house. She paused at the kitchen door and
rapped.

Receiving no response, she went around to the front of the house and
knocked on another door. There was no answer. Nor did a tour of the yard
reveal either of the Horner girls.

Disappointment took possession of Nancy. She had driven nearly fifteen
miles only to find no one at home.

“I’m defeated at every turn,” she thought disconsolately, as she slowly
walked back to the roadster. “It’s certainly discouraging.”

“Hello, there!” a voice called. “Were you looking for us?”

The shouted greeting reached Nancy as she prepared to step into the
roadster. One foot on the running board, she turned her head and saw the
Horner girls hurrying toward her from the direction of the barn.

Allie did not wait for her sister to open the barnyard gate, but,
swinging easily over it, ran to meet Nancy.

“We saw you just as you were leaving the house,” she cried
enthusiastically. “We wouldn’t have missed you for anything.”

“We were picking berries in the woods,” Grace explained, as she hurried
up, slightly out of breath. Proudly she displayed a tin pail which was
filled nearly to the brim with raspberries.

“But look at our arms!” and Allie laughed ruefully as she glanced down
at the ugly scratches which had been caused by brambles and sharp
thorns.

“You must come into the house and have a dish of berries, Nancy,” Grace
urged hospitably. “They’re good with sugar and cream.”

“If you don’t have them too often,” Allie added.

“I can stop but a minute,” Nancy declared, as the three entered the
house. “I came to talk about the will.”

“Oh, then you have good news for us?” Allie asked hopefully. “Are we
really going to get some of the money?”

“I don’t know yet,” Nancy was forced to admit. “So far I haven’t been
able to learn a thing about the missing will.”

Allie’s face fell, but she tried to hide her disappointment.

“We need the money so badly,” she said, with an apologetic smile. “Grace
hasn’t had a new dress in three years. She makes all of our clothing out
of old things we happen to have in the house. If our luck doesn’t change
soon I’m afraid we’ll be mistaken for rag pickers.”

“We really didn’t expect much of Uncle Josiah’s money,” Grace broke in
quickly, lest Nancy misinterpret her sister’s remarks. “We weren’t
related, you know.”

“Well, you can hardly say the Tophams were, for that matter,” Allie
declared. “They were third or fourth cousins.”

“We can get along without the money,” Grace said quietly. “We manage
very well when I have plenty of work. We’re a little discouraged right
now because dressmaking has fallen off. It’s a slack season, I guess
people would rather go to the store and buy a dress readymade.”

“I wouldn’t,” Nancy declared impulsively. “Grace, I’d like to engage you
to make me a dress. Will you do it? I’ll pay you well.”

Tears of joy came into Grace’s eyes.

“Will I? Oh, you don’t know how grateful I am for the work. I haven’t
had anything to do for nearly three months. I don’t mind poverty so much
for myself, but for Allie—” her voice broke. “I promised mother I’d
look after her.”

Allie sprang from her chair and rushed to her sister. She flung her arms
affectionately about her.

“Oh, Grace, I shouldn’t have said what I did about needing money. I
didn’t mean it! Truly, I didn’t.”

“But it’s the truth.”

“We’ll get along, Grace. If only my chicken money came in faster! Why
can’t a hen lay more than one egg a day?”

Grace smiled faintly at Allie’s feeble attempt at a joke, and, to break
an awkward silence, Nancy took up the conversation.

“I’ll bring the dress material with me the next time I come this way.”

She did not need a new dress, but she realized that there was no other
way to help the Horner girls, for they were too proud to accept money.

“And now I want to ask you a few more questions about Josiah Crowley,”
Nancy told them. “Do you know whether he ever visited other relatives
besides the Tophams?”

“Oh, yes,” Allie returned promptly. “He was only distantly related to
the Tophams, you know. They were third cousins I believe. He had a
number of other relatives whom he frequently visited.”

“Before he went to live with the Tophams, they took turns keeping him,”
Grace informed her visitor.

“Can you tell me the names of these relatives?”

“Let me see,” Grace lost herself in thought. “There are two cousins
living in Masonville.”

“Matilda and Edna Turner,” Allie prompted her. “They’re regular old
maids, but awfully nice. They were wonderful to Uncle Josiah when he was
alive.”

“And there were two nephews,” Grace went on. “William and Fred Mathews.
They have a farm on this same River Road. Everyone thought they would
get something.”

“How far do they live from here?” Nancy inquired.

“Oh, not more than five miles. You could drive there in a few minutes.
It’s on the way to Masonville.”

“Then I’ll be able to make the two calls on the same trip,” Nancy
announced, as she arose to depart. “I must hurry along now or it will be
too late for me to stop there this afternoon. I am hoping that by
talking with the relatives I may learn something which will help us to
trace the missing will.”

“I’m afraid there’s not much chance we’ll ever get anything,” Grace said
rather morosely. “The Tophams will never let the money slip out of their
hands.”

“If we find the will, they won’t be able to keep the money,” Nancy
declared. “Father will see to it that you girls get your just due.”

“Oh, Grace, we forgot to tell Nancy about Abigail Rowen,” Allie reminded
her sister. “She’d be apt to know more about the will than anyone else.”

“That’s right! You really should call on her, Nancy. She took care of
Uncle Josiah one time when he was sick, and he thought the world of her.
He often declared he intended to leave her something.”

“Even a few hundred dollars would have meant so much to her,” Allie
added. “Abigail is old and feeble now. She must be more than seventy
years of age, and there’s no one to look after her.”

“Where shall I find her?” Nancy asked quickly.

“She lives over on the West Lake Road,” Grace responded. “It’s a good
many miles from here. You could make inquiry at some of the farmhouses
along the road.”

“I won’t have time to go there to-day, but I’ll surely call upon her as
soon as I can. And now I must be going or it will be dark long before I
get back to River Heights.”

Nancy said good-bye hastily. The Horner girls accompanied her to the
roadster and watched her drive away. As she looked back from the corner,
they waved their handkerchiefs.

“Plucky girls!” Nancy thought. “Until to-day I didn’t realize how
terribly they need help. I simply must find a way to help them!”

She drove along the River Road, heading in the direction of Masonville.
Although it was growing late, Nancy was determined to visit the Mathews
brothers, and, if possible, Matilda and Edna Turner.

After she had gone perhaps five miles, she began to watch the mailboxes,
and presently noticed one which bore the name “Mathews.” The farmhouse
was set back a short distance from the road, and Nancy drove the
roadster down a narrow lane which led to it.

As she stopped the car, a man came out of the house and regarded her
questioningly. Learning that the farmer was William Mathews, Nancy
quickly explained her mission. At first the man was inclined to distrust
her, but after he had made certain that she was not a friend of the
Richard Topham family, he talked frankly of Josiah Crowley and told all
that he knew concerning the will.

“My brother and I have filed a complaint with the proper authorities at
the courthouse,” he explained. “We feel certain there must have been
another will because Uncle Josiah always said that he intended to leave
us something.”

“Did you actually see the will?” Nancy questioned hopefully.

The farmer shook his head.

“No, my brother and I haven’t the proof that he ever made a second will.
But we do know that he never had any particular love for the Tophams. He
felt that they took him in only because they were after his money, and I
guess he wasn’t wrong at that. Anyway, I am certain he had made up his
mind to cut them off without a cent.”

“Perhaps he neglected to write the second will.”

“That wouldn’t be like Uncle Josiah. He was rather queer about little
things, but he was always particular in attending to business matters.
No, I’m more apt to think he made the will and hid it somewhere.”

“You have no idea where he could have concealed it?”

“Not the slightest, Miss. My brother and I will be glad to offer a
substantial reward to anyone who can produce it.”

Nancy asked a number of other questions, but the farmer was unable to
furnish information which was of any value. Disappointed, she thanked
the man for his trouble, and continued on her way to Masonville.

“Rumor! Rumor!” she sighed. “That’s all I hear. At my next stop I hope
I’ll acquire a few facts!”

Upon reaching Masonville, Nancy made inquiry and was directed to the
home of the Turner sisters. They lived alone at the outskirts of the
city. Although not in poverty, they did not have any more money than
they needed.

Nancy found them at home, and when they learned the purpose of her visit
they greeted her cordially. They were very pleasant ladies and she spent
nearly an hour at their home. But although they answered her questions
willingly, she learned nothing which had a direct bearing on the missing
will.

Matilda and Edna Turner insisted that Josiah Crowley had intended to
disinherit the Tophams, but they had no idea what could have become of
the later will. They had been led to expect a small inheritance, and
were disappointed that everything was to go to the Tophams.

“Why don’t you talk with Abigail Rowen?” Matilda suggested at the
conclusion of the interview. “She took care of Josiah once when he was
sick, and he thought a lot of her. She knew more about his queer ways
than any other living person.”

“I don’t believe it would do a particle of good,” Edna interposed.
“Abigail is getting along in years, and her memory isn’t what it used to
be.”

It was after dark when at last Nancy took leave of the Turner sisters
and headed her roadster toward home. She was tired and hungry as well as
discouraged.

“So far I’ve only wasted my time,” she thought despondently. “I’m no
closer to finding the will than I ever was, and I’m sure there is one.
I’ve often heard father say that no real mystery is solved without a lot
of hard work—and I’m ready to believe it!”

With the exception of Abigail Rowen, Nancy had called upon all of the
Crowley relatives. From what the Turner sisters had told her, she was
doubtful that a visit to her cottage would be worth while.

“Oh, well, I suppose I may as well go there to-morrow,” Nancy decided,
after a mental debate. “She’s my last hope. If I fail there, I’ll be
forced to give up.”

“This must be the house. It certainly fits the description given me.”

As she spoke Nancy Drew paused before a square, one-story frame building
which stood dejectedly in the center of a yard overgrown with weeds and
dandelions. The cottage was sadly in need of paint and pickets were
missing from the sagging fence which enclosed it. A boardwalk which led
to the front porch had begun to rot away, and offered treacherous
footing.

“The place looks deserted, but I’m sure Abigail Rowen must live here,”
Nancy assured herself as she made her way up the walk, gingerly avoiding
loose boards which threatened to fly up at her.

Early that morning she had left River Heights in her final quest for
information concerning the Crowley will. Nancy did not know exactly
where Abigail Rowen lived, but she had taken the West Lake Road and had
made inquiry along the way. Neighbors had assured her that she could not
miss the place, as it was the most run-down house along the road.

“If Abigail can’t help me, I’m at the end of my string,” Nancy thought,
as she rapped on the front door.

There was no response to her knock and she rapped a second time. She was
about to turn away in disappointment when a slight noise within the
house attracted her attention. She was certain her rap had been heard.

“Who’s there?” a muffled voice called. “If you’re a peddler I don’t want
anything.”

“I’m not a peddler,” Nancy called out reassuringly. “Won’t you let me
in, please?”

There was a long silence, and then the quavering voice replied:

“I can’t open the door. I’ve hurt myself and can’t walk.”

Nancy hesitated an instant, and then pushed open the door. As she
stepped into the dreary living room, she saw the pitiful figure on the
couch. Abigail Rowen lay huddled under a ragged old shawl, her withered
face drawn with pain.

“I am Nancy Drew and I’ve come to help you, Miss Rowen.”

At the words, the old lady turned her head and regarded Nancy with a
stare which was almost childlike.

“You’ve come to help me?” she repeated unbelievingly. “I didn’t think
anyone would ever trouble themselves about old Abigail again.”

“Here, let me arrange the pillows for you.” Gently, Nancy moved the old
woman into a more comfortable position.

“Yesterday I fell down the cellar stairs,” Abigail explained. “I hurt my
hip and sprained my ankle. I can’t take a step without it nearly killing
me.”

“Haven’t you had a doctor?” Nancy asked in astonishment.

“There ain’t been a soul come near me,” Abigail sighed. “I’ve just laid
here on my bed and wondered how soon the end would come. I’m getting
along in years now and it won’t be long——”

“Nonsense,” Nancy protested brusquely, for she saw that the old lady’s
trouble had made her morose. “You have a good many happy years yet
before you. Can you walk at all? Are you certain your hip isn’t broken?”

“I can walk a little, but it hurts something awful when I do.”

“Then your hip isn’t broken,” Nancy said, in relief. “Let me see your
ankle. Why, you don’t even have it wrapped up! Where are the bandages?
I’ll fix it for you.”

“There’s a white rag in the closet in the kitchen,” Abigail told her.

Nancy shook her head sternly.

“A rag won’t do. You have a bad sprain and it must be taken care of
properly. You really should have a doctor.”

“I can’t afford it,” Abigail murmured.

“Let me pay for it,” Nancy begged.

Abigail shook her head stubbornly.

“I’ll not take charity. I’d rather die in my bed.”

“Well, if you’re set on not having a doctor, I’m going to the nearest
drug store and get bandages and a number of other things,” Nancy
insisted. “But before I go, I’ll make you a cup of tea.”

“There ain’t any tea in the house.”

“Then I’ll get some. What else do you need?”

“I need ’most everything, but I can’t afford to pay for it. You might
get me some tea and a loaf of bread. That’s enough. You’ll find the
money in a jar in the cupboard. It’s not very much, but it’s all I
have.”

“I’ll be back in a few minutes,” Nancy promised.

She stopped in the kitchen long enough to examine the cupboards. As she
had suspected, they were practically empty. With the exception of a
little flour and sugar and a cheap can of soup, there appeared to be
nothing in the house to eat. Nancy discovered the money jar, but an
investigation revealed that it contained less than five dollars.

“It’s probably every cent poor Abigail has in the world,” she thought.

Nancy did not take any money from the jar but quietly slipped out the
back door. Hurrying to the roadster which she had left at the roadside,
she drove to the nearest store and ordered nearly ten dollars worth of
groceries. She wished that she might take a doctor back with her, but
she realized that Abigail was set in her ways and would not accept the
service since she could not pay for it.

Before she returned to the cottage, Nancy stopped at the drug store and
purchased bandages and liniments. She carried the supplies into the
house and quickly set about making Abigail more comfortable. She bathed
the swollen ankle and bound it neatly with the clean bandage.

“It feels better already,” Abigail told her gratefully. “I dunno what
I’d of done if you hadn’t come when you did.”

As soon as she had attended to the woman’s immediate needs, Nancy built
a fire in the kitchen range and put on the teakettle. While she was
waiting for the water to boil, she raised the drawn shades and permitted
the warm sunshine to flood into the room. While she did this she told
Abigail Rowen something about herself.

After the tea had steeped she poured Abigail a cup and urged her to eat
the nourishing meal she had prepared. She was gratified to observe that
almost immediately the old woman became more cheerful and seemed to gain
strength. She sat up on the couch and appeared eager to talk with Nancy.

“There ain’t many folks that are willing to help an old woman. If Josiah
Crowley had lived things would have been different,” she declared.

“It’s strange that he didn’t provide for you in his will,” Nancy replied
quietly.

She did not wish to excite the old woman by telling her real mission,
and yet she was eager to find out what Abigail knew about the missing
will. She hoped that she might lead her tactfully into a discussion of
Josiah Crowley’s affairs without raising hopes which might never be
realized.

“It’s my opinion that Josiah did provide for me,” Miss Rowen returned
impressively. “Many a time he said to me: ‘Abigail, you’ll never need to
worry. When I’m gone you’ll be well taken care of by my will.’”

“And then everything was left to the Tophams,” Nancy encouraged her to
proceed.

“That was according to the first will. But there was another one. I
dunno what became of it.”

“Are you sure there was another will?” Nancy inquired almost too
eagerly, for Abigail looked at her rather sharply.

“Of course I am. I’m as sure of it as I am that I’m sitting here. Why, I
saw that will with my own eyes!”

“You saw it!” Nancy gasped.

The old woman nodded gravely.

“Mind, I didn’t see what was _in_ the will. One day Josiah came in where
I was sitting in my rocking chair, and right off I noticed he had a
piece of paper in his hand. ‘Abigail,’ he said, ‘I’ve made my will. I
fooled them lawyers and wrote it myself.’”

“How long ago was that?” Nancy asked quickly.

“Let me see,” Abigail frowned thoughtfully. “No, I can’t remember the
exact date. It was about the time Josiah went to live with Richard and
Cora. Well, to go on with what I was saying—when Josiah showed me the
will he seemed mighty tickled about it. Mind, he didn’t show me what was
inside but he hinted that he’d done well by me. ‘But Josiah,’ I said to
him, ‘are you sure it’s legal to write it yourself?’ ‘Of course it is,’
he said to me. ‘A lawyer told me it was all right just so long as I had
it witnessed.’”

“Do you know who witnessed the will?” Nancy broke in.

“No, I didn’t ask him and he didn’t say. He just went out of the room,
chuckling in that funny way he had.”

“Haven’t you any idea what became of the will?” Nancy asked hopefully.

“I reckon he hid it somewhere. That would be like Josiah. But I remember
he did say something about putting it ‘where nobody can get it unless
they have legal authority.’ So I dunno what became of it. For all I
know, he may have turned it over to a lawyer.”

“Are you certain that was all he said?” Nancy inquired gently. She knew
that Abigail had grown rather childish and that her memory was failing.

“It seems to me he did say something about what he was going to do with
that will, but I can’t just recollect.” Abigail shook her head and
sighed. “Many a night I’ve laid awake trying to think what it was.”

It seemed to Nancy that as victory was almost within her grasp, it had
been snatched from her. Undoubtedly, Abigail Bowen held the secret of
the Crowley will locked in her brain. And it was equally likely that she
would never be able to recall the vital information unless in some
unusual way her memory was given a particular stimulus.

“Try to think!” Nancy begged.

“I can’t remember,” Abigail murmured hopelessly. “I’ve tried and tried.”
She leaned against the cushions and closed her eyes, as though the
effort had exhausted her.

At that very moment the clock on the mantel chimed three. Abigail
Rowen’s eyes fluttered open and an odd expression passed over her face.

For an instant she stared straight before her and then slowly turned her
head and fastened her eyes on the clock.

When the mantel clock finished striking the hour of three, Abigail
Rowen’s lips began to move. Nancy Drew leaned forward eagerly, fearful
lest a single word escape her. She sensed that the striking of the clock
at a psychological moment had started a train of thought coursing
through the old woman’s mind, and now she believed that an important
disclosure was about to be made.

“The clock,” Abigail whispered so softly that the words were scarcely
audible. “That was it! The clock!”

“Josiah Crowley hid the will in a clock?” Nancy prompted her.

“No,” Abigail shook her head and sighed again. “That wasn’t it. I
thought I had it, and then it slipped my mind. I seem to recollect that
he said something about a clock, but that wasn’t it.”

Abigail continued to stare at the timepiece, as did Nancy, who was at a
loss to understand what connection it could have with the missing will.
Suddenly, a low cry came from the old woman.

“There! It came to me just like that! After all these years——”

“Tell me,” Nancy commanded quietly, for she feared that the knowledge
might slip from the old lady before she could disclose it.

“A notebook!” Abigail brought out triumphantly. “It was something about
a notebook!”

“Tell me more about the notebook,” Nancy urged gently. Although she
could scarcely hide her eagerness, she forced herself to speak quietly
lest she excite Miss Bowen.

“I remember it all now. Josiah wrote about the will in a little notebook
of his. One day he said to me: ‘Abigail, after I’m dead if my will
doesn’t come to light, you can find out all about it in this little book
of mine.’”

“What became of the notebook, Miss Bowen?”

“I can’t seem to recollect. He hid it someplace.”

Again Nancy Drew was baffled. Involuntarily, her eyes traveled to the
mantel clock. She studied it critically. What connection could the clock
have with the missing will, she asked herself. Certainly there must be
one, for otherwise its striking would not have caused Abigail to think
of the notebook.

Nancy had studied psychology in school and was familiar with the power
of suggestion and association. Now her keen mind jumped to the
conclusion that a clock had something to do with the missing Crowley
will. Could it be that the notebook had been hidden in the clock?

Impulsively, Nancy got up and went over to the mantel. She took down the
clock and looked inside. She saw nothing but a tiny key which evidently
was used to wind the timepiece. Disappointed, she returned to her chair.

“Where was Josiah Crowley living at the time he told you about the
notebook?” she asked the old lady.

“He was living in his own house then, but he was just getting ready to
go to the Tophams. He’d been visiting around with his various kin and
letting his own house stay empty. After the Tophams asked him to live
with them, he sold his home.”

“What became of the household goods?” Nancy inquired.

“Oh, the Tophams got ’most everything.”

“There must have been a family clock,” Nancy mused, half to herself.

“A family clock?” Abigail repeated. “Oh, yes, there was a clock.”

“Can you describe it?” Nancy questioned.

“Well, it was just an ordinary mantel clock, tall, and with a square
face. Something like that one over there.” The old lady pointed to the
timepiece Nancy had just examined. “Only Josiah’s was more elaborate. It
had a moon or something on top.”

“What became of the clock?”

“I dunno,” Abigail responded indifferently. “I suppose the Tophams got
it. They took everything else.”

It was on the tip of Nancy’s tongue to tell Abigail that Josiah Crowley
might have hidden his will inside the family clock, but she hesitated to
excite the old lady. After all, it was only a theory, and it would not
be kind to encourage Abigail Bowen to believe there was a likelihood of
gaining an inheritance unless it were a fact.

“I’ll wait until I’m sure before I say anything about it to her,” Nancy
decided.

She asked a number of other questions, but it was soon apparent that
Abigail had told all that she could recall about the will. Although
Nancy spoke of the family clock a number of times, its mention did not
seem to interest the old lady.

At last Nancy arose to depart, but before leaving she promised Abigail
she would return in a few days to see how she was getting along. It was
likewise her intention to stop at the nearest house to ask a neighbor
woman to look after the old lady during her absence, but she said
nothing of this, as she knew Abigail would protest.

After attending to the mission, she sprang into her roadster and started
for River Heights.

Nancy Drew was highly elated at the information she had gleaned, and was
now more interested in the case than ever.

“I’ll not tell the Horner girls what I have learned,” Nancy advised
herself. “At least not until I have learned more about the family clock.
If nothing comes of my theory, Allie and Grace would only be
disappointed. I’ll not raise their hopes until I have something
important to tell.”

As Nancy drove along on the West Lake Road she reviewed the facts of the
Crowley case. Unquestionably, Josiah Crowley had made a second will.
According to Abigail Rowen he had secreted it in a safe place and had
written its location in a little notebook. He had told Abigail where the
notebook could be found in case of his death, and with the passing
years, the knowledge had slipped away from the old lady.

“It’s my opinion that Josiah Crowley hid the notebook in the family
clock,” Nancy reasoned. “Otherwise, why would Abigail have said anything
about it?”

Nancy was at a loss to know how to proceed. She knew that her next step
in unraveling the mystery was to search the Crowley clock, but this
would not be easy to accomplish. If, as Abigail had indicated, the clock
had fallen into the hands of the Tophams, the task might be an
impossible one. Then, too, it was not at all unlikely that the Tophams
had already discovered the notebook.

“In that case they would have destroyed it,” Nancy told herself. “Still,
from the conversation I overheard in the park, I feel reasonably certain
the notebook has never been found. No, if Josiah Crowley ever hid it in
the clock, it must still be there, and it’s up to me to get hold of it!”

During the long ride to River Heights, Nancy Drew mulled over the
perplexing problem, but try as she would she could think of no way to
get her hands on the old clock. She must find some means of gaining
entrance to the Topham residence!

“I can’t very well climb through a window, much as I would like to,” she
laughed. “And if I pay a social call upon the Tophams, they’re sure to
be suspicious. We haven’t been friendly for years, and since Ada and
Isabel discovered that I have taken an interest in the Horner girls,
they would be certain to question my motive in going to their house. No,
I must think of a good excuse!”

Presently, Nancy reached River Heights. She drove the roadster down the
boulevard and stopped in front of her home. As she stepped out and was
preparing to go into the house, she heard her name called. Wheeling
about, she saw a girl running toward her. It was one of Nancy’s chums,
Helen Corning.

“Hello, Nancy,” Helen called. “I haven’t seen you for days. Where do you
keep yourself?”

Nancy laughed as she greeted her chum.

“Oh, I’ve been especially busy lately. Come into the house and we’ll
have a chat.”

“Oh, I can’t, Nancy. I wouldn’t be up this way, but I’m trying to sell
tickets for a charity dance.”

“How many have you sold?”

“I have six left.” Helen sighed. “It’s a thankless job.”

“I’ll take two if that will help you out,” Nancy offered.

“Will it help me? Say, if I ever get rid of these tickets I’m going to
dance a hornpipe. If I don’t sell them this afternoon it’s going to fix
it so I can’t start for Moon Lake. I wish I’d never promised to sell the
things!”

“Moon Lake?” Nancy asked, in surprise.

“Yes, I’m going to a girls’ camp there. I had planned to leave to-night;
but unless I get rid of these tickets I don’t see how I can. I wish you
were going with me to Moon Lake, Nancy.”

“So do I, Helen.”

“Why don’t you come along then?”

“Oh, I can’t,” Nancy protested. “I’m involved in something important and
I can’t get away. I’d love to go though—really, I would.”

“Well, if you find you can make it later, just hop into your roadster
and come along. I’ll be there for two weeks. That is, if I ever get rid
of these charity tickets. I can’t leave until I’ve sold them. I’d pay
for them out of my allowance, only I’ve spent it already.”

“You are in difficulties,” Nancy laughed. She reached in her purse. “How
much are the tickets, Helen?”

“Two dollars each. How many will you take?”

“Oh, give me two.”

As Helen extended the tickets, a sudden thought struck Nancy Drew. A
pleased light broke over her face.

“I have an idea, Helen! I’ll sell all of your tickets for you! How will
that suit you?”

“You’re not joking?”

“Never was more serious in my life.”

“Then the tickets are yours. But let me warn you it won’t be easy to
sell them.”

“I’ll enjoy trying it.”

“Well, I must say you have queer ideas of fun,” Helen commented dryly.
“But I’ll not argue with you. This will be fine for me. Now I’ll be able
to start for camp this afternoon. Here are the tickets.” She handed them
over with evident pleasure. “Good luck to you, Nancy. You’ll need it!”

After Helen Corning had gone on down the street, Nancy Drew walked
slowly toward the house. She regarded the charity tickets meditatively
and chuckled softly to herself.

“That’s once when I killed two birds with one stone! These tickets will
serve as my passport to the impregnable Topham fortress!”

It was nearly three o’clock of the following afternoon when Nancy Drew
paused in front of the Topham residence on Highland Boulevard. She
surveyed the structure with distaste.

The house was a large, pretentious affair of nondescript type. It was
set back from the street and seemed to look down rather aloofly upon the
surrounding homes. Even a casual glance at the lawn revealed that it had
been “landscaped” with a vengeance. In an effort to “do it in proper
style,” Mrs. Topham had crowded the yard with sundials, benches, bird
houses, and statues.

“Such lack of taste!” Nancy thought, as she walked up the path to the
house.

She lifted the knocker on the front door. Nancy Drew realized that the
interview was apt to be an unpleasant one, and she braced herself for
the ordeal.

“I must be diplomatic,” she advised herself, “or I’ll not learn a thing
about that clock. If they suspect what I am about, they may bounce me
out on my ear!”

At that moment a uniformed butler opened the door and condescendingly
waited for Nancy to state her mission.

“Tell Mrs. Topham that Miss Drew is calling,” she directed. “I am
selling tickets for the charity dance. It’s one of the most important
social functions of the year. I am sure Mrs. Topham will wish to
attend.”

Nancy was forced to wait until the butler returned with permission for
her to enter. As she was finally ushered into the living room, she could
not help but smile at the elaborate formality, for in spite of Mrs.
Topham’s lofty ambitions, the woman had never achieved the commanding
position in society that she strove for.

The room in which Nancy found herself was even more bizarre than she had
anticipated. Expensive oriental rugs clashed with window draperies of a
different hue. The walls were heavy with paintings which were entirely
out of place in such a small room, and period furniture had been added
indiscriminately.

But Nancy Drew was not interested in Mrs. Topham’s lack of taste. As
soon as the butler had left her alone she hastily glanced about. Almost
at once her eye fastened upon a mantel clock which rested above the
fireplace.

“I wonder if that can be the Crowley clock?” Nancy thought.

She rather doubted it, for the clock was too modern in appearance. She
would have crossed the room to examine it, but a sound in the hall
caused her to hesitate. As she heard someone coming she sank down on an
uncomfortable ladder-back chair and assumed an expression of composure.

Mrs. Topham sailed grandly into the room and after surveying her for a
minute, took a seat opposite Nancy.

“Well?” she demanded coldly. “What is it?”

“I am selling tickets for the——”

“I don’t want them!” Mrs. Topham broke in rudely. “I can’t be handing
out my money to every peddler that comes along.”

“Mrs. Topham, I am not a peddler,” Nancy said cuttingly, as the color
mounted to her cheeks. With difficulty she kept her temper in check.
“Perhaps you didn’t understand my name. I am Nancy Drew.”

“Oh.” A slight change came over Mrs. Topham’s face, for she was fully
aware that Carson Drew and his daughter were cordially welcomed in River
Heights homes which merely tolerated the Tophams or, in a few cases,
barred them. “I didn’t catch the name, Miss Drew. What is it you are
selling?”

“Tickets for the charity dance.”

“Well, I hardly know what to say,” Mrs. Topham hedged.

It was apparent that she was afraid to offend Nancy, and yet she was
unwilling to part with the money. Although the Tophams were well-to-do,
it was common knowledge that Mrs. Topham was decidedly stingy where
other persons were concerned.

“How much are the tickets?”

“Two dollars each.”

“Why, that’s positively exorbitant!” Mrs. Topham protested.

“But we are selling the tickets for charity,” Nancy explained. “I assure
you the cause is an excellent one.”

Before Mrs. Topham could reply, the front door opened and Isabel and Ada
entered the house. Unaware of the visitor, they paused in the hall and
carried on a disgruntled conversation. Evidently, they had been making
social calls and were angry because some woman had refused to see them.

“Her maid said she wasn’t at home, but I know she was,” Nancy heard Ada
complain.

The two sisters entered the living room, and when they saw Nancy stopped
short and stared rudely at her. They did not speak a word of greeting.

“Miss Drew is selling tickets to a dance,” Mrs. Topham informed her
daughters.

“Don’t buy them,” Ada advised harshly. She had not forgotten the scene
in the department store and longed to avenge herself upon Nancy, whom
she considered responsible for her humiliation.

“But, Ada,” Mrs. Topham protested feebly, “I thought it might help our
social standing to take a few tickets.”

“Don’t be silly, mother,” Ada snapped. “You’ll only waste your money. We
don’t want to go, anyway.”

“All right, I won’t buy the tickets. Good afternoon, Miss Drew.”

Reluctantly, Nancy arose. She was somewhat taken aback at the
unceremonious dismissal, for she had not accomplished the real purpose
of her visit.

As she turned, Nancy saw that Richard Topham blocked the door. He had
entered so quietly that his arrival had been unobserved.

“Just a minute, Miss Drew,” he said. “How many tickets have you there?”

“Four,” Nancy gasped in surprise.

“I’ll take them all.”

With a grand gesture, Richard Topham opened his pocketbook and
carelessly pulled out a twenty dollar bill.

“Keep the change,” he ordered with assumed indifference. “Give it to the
charity.”

“Richard!” his wife gazed at him with disapproval. “Have you lost your
mind? A twenty dollar bill!” she whispered.

“It’s you who can’t see beyond your nose,” Mr. Topham retorted, but in a
low voice. “You’re always trying to get into society, and then you pass
up a real opportunity. This donation will get our names into the paper.”

He slumped into the nearest chair, and, opening the afternoon paper,
buried himself in the stock page. Mrs. Topham knew that the matter was
closed, for she scarcely dared speak to her husband when he was absorbed
in the market reports. Nancy, too, realized that she had no excuse for
prolonging her stay.

“I really must be going,” she said quickly. “What time is it, anyway?”

“There’s a clock in front of you,” Isabel told her pointedly.

“Why, so there is,” Nancy returned pleasantly. She glanced at the
timepiece as though she had never seen it before. “Oh, surely that can’t
be the old Crowley clock? I’m so interested in heirlooms.”

“I should say not! This is a far more expensive clock than the one
Josiah Crowley left us,” Mrs. Topham informed her caller
condescendingly.

“Indeed? But I suppose you still have the family clock stored away in
your attic. It’s so hard to part with heirlooms.” Cleverly, Nancy led
Mrs. Topham to further disclosures.

“It wasn’t hard to part with that old-fashioned thing,” Mrs. Topham
returned.

“We didn’t want it cluttering up the attic,” Isabel added. “Crowley left
so much old junk.”

“We considered the clock entirely out of place in our modern home,” Mrs.
Topham continued; “so we sent it up to our bungalow on Moon Lake.”

Unwittingly, Mrs. Topham had given Nancy the information which she
sought. The purpose of her visit accomplished, the girl politely thanked
the Tophams for the purchase of the charity tickets and quickly took her
leave.

As she walked down the path to the street she chuckled softly to
herself.

“The Tophams may be old schemers, but this time they weren’t so clever!
Unless I am mistaken those tickets will prove the most expensive ones
they ever bought! Before they get through it may cost them the Crowley
fortune!”

Although highly elated at what she had learned from the Tophams, Nancy
Drew was at a loss to know how to proceed. Undoubtedly, the old Crowley
clock was set up in the bungalow at Moon Lake, but to get there was
another matter. Nancy was determined to profit by the information, but
was confronted with a number of serious problems.

Moon Lake was located among the hills forty miles away, and the roads
were not of the best. Nancy did not know the exact location of the
Topham cottage. Then, too, she needed an excuse for making the long
trip.

“If the Tophams learn I have gone to Moon Lake they may become
suspicious,” she counseled herself. “I must think of some excuse to
broadcast as a smoke screen.”

But try as she would, Nancy could think of nothing. She took a certain
amount of pride in her detective work, and now that she felt she had
struck a valuable clue, she did not wish to ask advice from her father.
She preferred to solve the mystery herself and then surprise him with
the solution.

At dinner that night, Nancy was unusually silent and Carson Drew
commented on her preoccupation.

“It seems to me you have been looking troubled lately,” he observed. “Do
you feel well?”

“Never felt better in my life,” Nancy laughed.

“Just the same, I believe you need a vacation. I realize that it isn’t
easy for a girl your age to look after a big house like this. After a
time, the responsibility gets to be wearing.”

“How stupid of me!” Nancy exclaimed.

In her excitement, she permitted a fork to fall from her hand and
clatter against the plate. Carson Drew, who did not comprehend what was
passing through his daughter’s mind, looked at her in surprise.

“Stupid?” he inquired.

“Oh, I mean it was strange I didn’t think of Helen Corning before this,”
Nancy said hastily. “Helen is going to a girls’ camp on Moon Lake. I’m
dying to go to Moon Lake! May I start the first thing in the morning? I
know I can get in. They have room for half a dozen more girls, Helen
said.”

“I think it would be an excellent idea, Nancy. A nice rest will do
wonders for you. Go, by all means.”

Nancy Drew was delighted that she had stumbled upon an excuse which
would make it appear natural for her to go to Moon Lake. Early the next
morning, after packing a suitcase, she started off in the roadster. As
it was not out of her way to go by the River Road, she decided to stop
at the Horners and give Grace the dress goods she had promised her.

As she drove in at the gate, one glance told Nancy that something was
wrong. She saw a number of dead chickens in the barnyard, and as the
Horner girls came toward her from the direction of the hen house, it was
evident that Allie had been crying.

“Why, what is the matter?” Nancy asked quickly.

“Oh, it’s my chickens, Nancy. They’re all dying. I can’t understand it.
This morning when I went to feed them I found ten dead. I’m so
discouraged.”

“And yesterday a fox took two,” Grace added. “I guess fate is against
us.”

“I’m afraid I’ll lose all of my chickens before I get through,” Allie
declared unhappily. “I don’t know what is killing them. They seem to
have a strange disease.”

“Allie is all broken up,” Grace said quietly. “She’s worked so hard with
her chickens. Most of them are pets. And then, we need the money so
badly. Now that dressmaking has fallen off, the chicken money is our
only means of support.”

“Please, won’t you let me help?” Nancy begged reaching for her
pocketbook. “Accept a little loan to tide you over?”

Grace shook her head firmly.

“Thank you for your kindness, Nancy; but we can’t take your money. We’ll
manage somehow.”

“If only Uncle Josiah had provided for us!” Allie sighed. “You haven’t
learned anything more about the second will, Nancy?”

“I haven’t anything definite to report,” Nancy replied, evading the
question. She did not wish to raise false hope and she thought it best
not to tell of her discovery. “But I’m still hoping we’ll be able to
trace the will.”

“I doubt it,” Grace commented pessimistically.

“I’m on my way to Moon Lake now,” Nancy told the girls. “I stopped here
to deliver the dress goods.” She handed a package to Grace. “The pattern
is inside and I’m easy to fit, so you’ll have no trouble.”

Grace’s face brightened as she accepted the bundle.

“Oh, Nancy, I can’t thank you——”

“It is I who should thank you,” Nancy laughed. “And now let me pay for
the dress in advance.”

Again Grace stubbornly shook her head.

“Not until the work is finished. That isn’t good business.”

Nancy saw that Grace and Allie were too proud to accept help, and
regretfully abandoned the idea of trying to give them money.

“I’ll come back in a few days for a fitting,” she promised, as she
prepared to drive away.

Nancy’s talk with the Horner girls had left her rather depressed, for
she realized that in spite of their pride, Allie and Grace would soon be
forced to accept charity. Oh, if only she could help them!

“And poor old Abigail,” Nancy thought. “If Josiah Crowley had used a
grain of sense, things wouldn’t be in such a muddle.”

Nancy soon branched off from the River Road and headed south toward Moon
Lake. The highway was little traveled and it was necessary for her to
devote all of her attention to driving. The road had not been dragged
after a recent rain and the ruts were deep. Jagged rocks and stones were
scattered in the path, and it seemed to Nancy that the hills went
straight up and straight down.

Presently, she noticed that the roadster had taken a strange notion to
turn to the left of the road in spite of her efforts to keep it in the
middle. Not without foreboding of trouble, she stopped the car and got
out to make a tour of inspection. As she had suspected, a rear tire was
flat.

“A puncture!” Nancy murmured in disgust. “If that isn’t just my luck!
Oh, well, I suppose I must fix it myself, because there won’t be another
car along for an hour on this road.”

It was not the first time Nancy Drew had changed a tire, but she never
relished the task. Rummaging under the seat, she pulled out the tools
and quickly jacked up the rear axle. She loosened the lugs which held
the tire in place, and tugged at it. Again and again she pulled, but the
huge balloon tire could not be budged. Then, as she gave one mighty tug,
it came off and Nancy Drew fell backwards into a sitting posture in the
road.

“Well, it’s off, anyway,” she told herself with satisfaction, as she
brushed the dirt from her clothing.

It required but a few minutes to put on the spare tire and fasten the
old one to the rear of the car. Then, in relief, Nancy started on her
way again, but the accident had delayed her nearly an hour.

It was after twelve o’clock when at last she came within sight of Camp
Avondale, where Helen Corning was staying. Through the tall trees she
caught a glimpse of a long row of shacks and saw the smoke rising from
the cook house. Beyond, the blue lake sparkled and glimmered in the
sunlight.

As Nancy drove into the camp, a group of girls gathered about the
roadster. Helen Corning came running out of a cabin to greet her chum.

“Girls, it’s Nancy Drew!” she exclaimed enthusiastically. “Now the fun
will start! Park your car over there back of the cook house, Nancy.”

“Am, I too late for dinner?” Nancy demanded. “I’m nearly starved.”

“You’re just in time,” Helen assured her. “Oh, Nancy, I’m so glad you
came.”

“So am I.”

“How long can you stay?”

“Oh, I don’t know. Until you get tired of me probably.”

“Then you’ll stay for the rest of the summer,” Helen laughed.

Nancy was escorted to the main building of the camp, where she met the
lady in charge and registered.

“She is to stay with me,” said Helen; and so it was arranged.

When the girls walked off Nancy told Helen about selling the charity
dance tickets and gave her the money paid by Mr. Topham.

“He surely was generous,” said Helen, in surprise.

“He did it just to show off,” declared Nancy. “I am positive of it.”

Nancy scarcely had time to deposit her suitcase under her cot and
freshen up a bit from her long ride, when dinner was called. The food
was plain but substantial, and already she discovered that she had
developed an enormous appetite.

Dinner over, she was rushed from one thing to another. The girls
insisted that Nancy join them in a hike. She returned to camp with a
desire for a good rest, but Helen Corning had other plans.

“We’re all going for a ride in the launch before supper,” she declared.

“Don’t you ever rest here?” Nancy groaned.

“Oh, yes—at night. This is your first day here. You’ll be used to it in
a day or so.”

“Either that or I’ll be a wreck.”

“But you don’t want to miss the launch ride, Nancy. You’ll have a
splendid opportunity to see all the summer cottages on Moon Lake.”

“Summer cottages?” Nancy asked quickly. Instantly she thought of the
Topham bungalow and wondered where it was located. Undoubtedly, the
launch ride would give her the opportunity to find out.

“You’ll go, won’t you?” Helen begged. “You can rest after supper.”

“Yes, I’ll go,” Nancy promised. “You couldn’t keep me here.”

Although she was tired, she was really enjoying herself immensely.

Six girls loaded themselves into the launch and someone started the
motor.

“It’s always a relief when the engine starts,” Helen explained. “Every
so often it balks.”

As the little launch turned out into the lake, it seemed to Nancy that
she had never seen a more beautiful sight. The sun, which appeared to be
sinking down into the water, resembled a great ball of fire. Yet, she
did not forget the real purpose of the trip.

“The Tophams have a bungalow up here, haven’t they?” she questioned.

“Yes, it’s across the lake from here. We’ll come to it presently.”

“The Tophams aren’t there now?”

“Oh, no, the cottage is closed. There’s a negro caretaker who looks
after it—they call him Jeff Tucker.”

“Is it hard to get to the place?”

“Oh, not if you go by launch. But it’s a long way if you take the road
around the lake. I didn’t know you were particularly interested in the
Tophams, Nancy.”

“Oh, they’re no friends of mine,” Nancy returned hastily. “I was merely
curious.”

After a time, as the launch chugged along close to the shore, Helen
waved her hand toward a bungalow which was set back some distance from
the water.

“The Tophams own that one,” she informed her chum.

Eagerly, Nancy turned her head and looked. She told herself that she
would remember the location.

“We’re going to have a wonderful time here together,” Helen chatted
happily on. “Next week there’s going to be a big dance, too. Oh, there’s
so much of interest at Moon Lake, Nancy! You’ll stay, won’t you!”

Involuntarily, Nancy’s eyes swept the shore and came to rest on the
Topham bungalow.

“You’re right, Helen,” she agreed heartily. “There are a number of
interesting things here! Yes, if you want me to, I’ll stay.”

Nancy Drew had made up her mind to visit the Topham cottage the very
next day, but in making her plans she had counted without Helen Corning
and her friends. They were unwilling that she should be alone even for a
minute.

From the moment she awoke in the morning and sniffed the fragrant odor
of the pines, she was rushed from one thing to another. After a
breakfast of fruit, fried eggs, crisp bacon, and hot corn bread, she was
pressed into a tennis game. The afternoon was devoted to swimming and
water polo. By evening Nancy Drew was so tired she could scarcely keep
her eyes open, and she was thankful for the opportunity of tumbling into
bed.

“To-morrow I simply must find a way to visit the Topham cottage,” she
told herself just before she dropped off to sleep.

Immediately after breakfast the following morning, Helen Corning
announced the plan for the day.

“The girls have decided on an all-day hike into the woods, Nancy. You’ll
go, won’t you?” Nancy groaned.

“You’re wearing me to a frazzle, Helen. Please let me off this time. I’d
like to stay in camp to-day and just rest up.”

“Well, all right,” Helen agreed unwillingly. “I’ll stay with you.”

“Oh, no!” Nancy protested vigorously. “I won’t let you do that! You like
to hike so well. Please go on. I’ll have a good time all by myself.
Really, I will.”

“I don’t like to leave you, Nancy. But if you insist——”

“I do, Helen. Please don’t worry about me. I’ll have a good time here.
If you don’t mind, I may take the launch out while you’re gone.”

“If you do, you’d better not go far,” Helen advised her. “We girls
bought it secondhand for a song, and it’s my private opinion the engine
isn’t much good.”

“I’ll be careful,” Nancy promised.

She could scarcely hide her eagerness to be off, but she was forced to
wait until Helen and her friends had started on their hike. It seemed to
Nancy that they would never leave, but at last they trudged away with
their knapsacks slung over their shoulders.

“You’ll wish you had gone, too!” Helen called back over her shoulder.

As soon as the girls were out of sight, Nancy hurried down to the launch
which was tied to the dock not far from the camp. She examined the
engine. She had frequently handled motor boats, but never one of this
particular make.

“I believe I can manage it all right, if only I can get the engine
started,” Nancy told herself.

She discovered a pin sunk in the rim of a flywheel, and after adjusting
other parts, pulled it out rather timidly. She gave the wheel a vigorous
turn to the right. She tried again, swinging it farther and snapping
back hard. To her delight the engine began to roar.

Cutting down the motor, Nancy steered out into deep water. At first she
followed the shore, but as she became more familiar with the wheel and
as the engine appeared to work perfectly, she headed out into the lake.

Nancy experienced a real thrill as the little launch responded to her
hand. The lake was as smooth as glass, and there was scarcely a cloud in
the sky. As the launch cut through the water a tiny spray blew in
Nancy’s face, but she did not mind.

Far ahead she could see the opposite shore, and she headed straight for
the point where she knew the Topham bungalow was located.

“If only the caretaker will let me in when I get there!” she thought, as
she drew near her objective point.

But she was doomed never to reach the opposite shore that day, for
unexpectedly there was a miss in the steady throb of the engine. The
motor gave one long slow wheeze and died.

“Oh, what can have happened to it now?” Nancy cried anxiously. “I can’t
have run out of gasoline.”

An examination of the tank revealed that it was nearly full. Nancy
studied the engine doubtfully. Like most girls, she had never interested
herself in the mechanics of what made wheels go around.

“Hateful thing!” she murmured. “I believe it stopped on purpose!”

Too late, Nancy recalled that her chum had warned her about the engine.
Now, as she glanced toward shore, she saw no hope of rescue. She was
within sight of the Topham bungalow, which appeared deserted, but miles
from her own camp.

For nearly an hour she worked over the engine, but her efforts were
useless. The stubborn motor refused to start.

“I’ll have to sit out here all day,” Nancy thought miserably. “This
means I won’t get to visit the Topham cottage after all!”

It was especially tantalizing to be so close to the bungalow and yet
know that she could not reach it. Nancy was tempted to swim, but she
gave up the idea almost as quickly as it occurred to her, for she
realized that even if she reached the Topham bungalow she would have no
means of returning to camp. She decided that it would be better to
remain on the lake and wait for a passing boat to rescue her.

Slowly the hours dragged on, and the launch drifted farther and farther
from shore. Never had time seemed to pass so monotonously.

“There’s one thing certain,” Nancy Drew told herself. “If I ever get out
of this launch, I’ll never set foot in it again!”

The camp boat seemed to be the only one on the lake, and as the day wore
on she began to wonder if she ever would be rescued. The sun beat down
upon her, and with the passing hours she became hungry as well as
uncomfortable.

“After to-day I’ll never have another chance to visit the Topham
bungalow alone,” she thought. “Helen means well, but she will stay with
me every minute. I think the best thing I can do is to tell her I am
starting for home to-morrow—that is, if I’m ever lucky enough to reach
shore. On my way back to River Heights I’ll stop at the Topham cottage.
Helen will be disappointed, but it can’t be helped.”

For want of other occupation, Nancy turned her attention again to the
engine. When the sun sank into the water several hours later, she was
still bending over it, a determined look in her eyes.

“There!” she muttered as she straightened up. “I’ve certainly done
enough to it. If it won’t go now, it never will.”

She gave the wheel a vicious swing, and, to her astonishment, the engine
began its steady roar as unconcerned as though it had never stopped.

“If that isn’t the limit!” Nancy exclaimed in wonder.

Hopefully, she glanced toward the shore, but already shadows were
beginning to lurk among the trees and she knew that in less than an hour
it would be dark.

“It’s too late to visit the bungalow to-night,” she decided regretfully.
“I’d better get back to camp before this engine changes its mind again.”

Obedient to her will, the little launch plowed through the water toward
camp, its engine laboring faithfully. As she eased up to the dock, Nancy
saw Helen and her friends just trudging into camp. They hailed her with
delight.

“I’m nearly dead,” Helen announced. “You were smart to stay in camp,
Nancy.” She stopped abruptly and stared at her chum. “Why, you’re all
sunburned, and you’re covered with grease! What have you been doing!”

“Taking a sunbath,” Nancy laughed. “By the way, Helen, you were right
about that engine; but I don’t think it will give you any more trouble
this summer. Anyway, I’ve donated eight hours to the cause.”

“Eight hours!” Helen gasped. “You’ve not been out on the lake all that
time?”

“It served me right, I guess. I should have gone on the hike.”

But while Nancy made light of her adventure, she was disappointed. She
had wasted a day, and time was precious. Would she ever reach the Topham
bungalow? So far she had been thwarted at every turn.

“Nancy Drew, why are you packing that suitcase? You’re not leaving camp
already?”

Helen Corning, entering the cabin which she shared with Nancy, stopped
in the doorway and stared in amazement at her chum, who was folding
wearing apparel carefully into her suitcase.

“I’m afraid I must leave this afternoon,” Nancy admitted regretfully.

“But you’ve been here only three days,” Helen protested. “Don’t you like
the camp?”

“Oh, I’ve had a wonderful time,” Nancy cried impulsively. “And the girls
have been so nice to me. I’d love to stay, but I can’t. There’s
something important I must attend to at once.”

“Can’t it wait?”

“I’m afraid not. I’ve waited too long already.”

“But the dance, Nancy! You don’t want to miss it.”

“I don’t want to, Helen; but I really must go this afternoon.”

“I can’t understand what’s made you change your mind so suddenly. It
wasn’t that horrid experience in the launch, was it?”

Nancy Drew laughed and shook her head. She could not tell Helen her real
reason for departing. So long as she remained at camp she knew that
Helen and her friends would not leave her alone for a minute. It would
be impossible to visit the Topham bungalow on the opposite side of the
lake without offering explanations, and Nancy was unwilling to disclose
the purpose of her trip.

In spite of Helen’s teasing, she remained firm in her decision to leave
camp. Directly after luncheon she slung her suitcase into the roadster
and took leave of the girls. Regretfully, they watched her go.

“Now, if only I can find my way to the Topham bungalow,” Nancy thought.

The previous day she had casually inquired from Helen which road led to
the Topham bungalow, but the directions had been rather hazy. Coming to
a fork, she selected the left hand road which appeared to circle the
lake. As Helen had indicated, it was winding and narrow, and richly
sprinkled with sharp rocks.

From camp it was comparatively easy to reach the Topham bungalow by
launch, but the distance around the lake was nearly eight miles. Nancy
was forced to drive slowly, and had she met another car it would have
been difficult to have passed.

In places the road was muddy, for overhanging trees and bushes protected
the moist earth from the rays of the sun. The going was especially hard
because of two deep ruts which apparently had been made by a heavy
truck.

“I wonder what a truck was doing up this road?” Nancy mused somewhat
curiously. “The tracks appear to have been made to-day too.”

As she drove along, she noticed a number of summer cottages, but as the
season was late nearly all were boarded up. At last she came within
sight of a clearing, and through the trees caught a glimpse of the
Topham bungalow.

“I hope I’ll find the caretaker,” she thought. “I’d certainly hate to go
back without seeing him.”

Not without a feeling of anxiety, she stopped the roadster at the edge
of the road. To her surprise, she observed that the tracks made by the
truck did not continue further. Apparently, the truck had turned in
toward the bungalow. Nancy hurried up the path. As she emerged from
among the trees, she stopped short and stared ahead in amazement.

The entire camp was in disorder. The front door of the bungalow had been
flung wide open and the side doors were likewise ajar.

An overturned chair had been dropped carelessly on the porch, and a
trail of knickknacks stretched from the house to the path. The grass had
been trampled, and there were peculiar marks in the soft earth.

“There’s something strange about this,” Nancy murmured.

Quickly, she bent down to examine the marks which were clearly visible.
At a glance she saw that the footprints had been caused by heavy boots
and there were long lines evidently caused by dragging boxes and
furniture across the lawn.

“I think I’m beginning to see the light,” Nancy told herself. “Now I
know what that truck was doing on this road. Unquestionably, it was a
moving van, and it came here.”

Again she examined the imprints in the soft earth.

“These marks couldn’t have been made more than an hour ago, at the
latest,” she decided.

As she hurried on up the path, it appeared to Nancy that the camp was
deserted. There was no sign of Jeff Tucker, the colored caretaker in
whose care the bungalow had been entrusted.

Reaching the veranda, Nancy knocked loudly on the door. When there was
no response, she boldly entered.

“What can this mean?” she asked herself in dismay, as she stared at the
sight before her.

The living room was in confusion. Save for a few pieces, it was bare of
furniture. Even the draperies and curtains had been ripped from their
rods. The rugs were missing, as was everything else of value.

To Nancy’s astonishment she found that with the exception of one room
the entire house had been ransacked. Only one bedroom had been left
practically untouched, and as she stepped into it, she noticed that the
rug had been rolled up and securely tied as though in preparation for
moving.

As Nancy gazed at the disorder about her, she searched her mind for an
explanation. What could it mean?

“It looks like a case of ordinary robbery to me,” she reasoned.

Nancy had frequently read of cases where the summer homes of wealthy
persons had been stripped of furniture and rugs by unscrupulous robbers
who sold the valuables to secondhand dealers and fences. In recent years
there had been a number of thefts in the vicinity of Moon Lake, and as a
protective measure many of the cottage owners employed caretakers the
year around.

What had become of Jeff Tucker, the colored man who had been left in
charge of the Topham bungalow? The place seemed deserted.

Nancy realized that the Topham bungalow, which had been expensively
furnished, would offer a rich prize for thieves. Now, as she viewed the
evidence, the suspicion which lurked in her mind developed into firm
conviction. She was certain that robbers had ransacked the place,
carrying off nearly everything of value.

“They must have taken the Crowley clock too,” Nancy told herself with a
sinking heart. “If they have, I’ll never set eyes on it!”

A feeling of desperation came over the girl as she realized that again
she had been thwarted. It seemed almost as though a cruel fate had
ordained that the mystery of the missing Crowley will should forever
remain unsolved.

“It’s barely possible the robbers overlooked the clock,” Nancy thought
hopefully.

She began to look about in nooks and corners of the bungalow. She opened
closets and poked about in drawers, but her search was in vain. She
found no clock.

As Nancy returned to the bedroom, she regarded it meditatively. Why had
the robbers left this one room practically untouched? Certainly the
furniture was as valuable as that which they had taken. Unquestionably,
the thieves had intended to strip the room, for they had rolled up the
rug.

“I wonder if they heard me coming and were frightened away?” Nancy asked
herself. “I didn’t see a sign of their truck, and yet I’m sure they
couldn’t have left here many minutes before I arrived.”

As the thought occurred to her, she glanced uneasily over her shoulder.
She realized that she was buried in a wilderness some miles from the
nearest house, and the knowledge that unscrupulous men were in the
vicinity was anything but reassuring.

“What if those robbers should still be around here?” flashed through her
mind.

As Nancy Drew listened tensely, the very silence of the empty house was
startling. A strange feeling came over her.

She could almost sense that someone was watching her every movement.

“How silly of me to be afraid!” Nancy Drew laughed nervously. “Probably
there isn’t a person within miles of here!”

As she glanced about the bungalow it was with relief that she assured
herself the place was deserted. Yet, for some reason, she was unable to
free herself entirely from the feeling that an unseen danger lurked in
wait for her. The very walls seemed to smirk and grimace at her and
there was an ominous something in the air.

Now that Nancy felt certain that the Crowley clock had been stolen, she
was anxious to get away from the Topham bungalow as quickly as possible.

“I’ll drive to the nearest town and report the robbery to the police,”
she decided. “Those men won’t be able to travel very fast with a heavy
moving van. There’s a chance that they may be caught yet.”

Having made the decision, Nancy moved toward the front door. Passing a
window, she chanced to glance out, and what she saw caused her to pause
in sheer fright.

A heavy-set man with a cap pulled low over his eyes was coming up the
path toward the house.

For a moment, Nancy Drew was held in a paralysis of fear. She was
positive that the man who was coming toward her was one of the members
of the robber band.

Only an instant did the girl hesitate. Then she turned and ran back into
the bedroom. Too late she saw that she had trapped herself, for this
room had no outside door.

Nancy started back toward the living room, but before she had taken half
a dozen steps she realized that her escape had been cut off from that
direction. The man had reached the veranda steps.

Frantically, she glanced about for a hiding place. The bedroom closet
offered the only possible refuge, and with scarcely an instant’s
hesitation she stepped into it and closed the door behind her.

Nancy was not a minute too soon. Scarcely had she shut the door when she
heard the heavy tread of a man’s hobnail shoes on the floor. Peeping
cautiously out through a tiny crack in the door, she saw a rough-looking
man come into the bedroom. His face was cold and cruel.

As he turned toward the closet where she huddled, Nancy Drew held her
breath, scarcely daring to breathe naturally lest her presence be
detected. Apparently, the man noticed nothing amiss, for his eyes rested
only casually on the closet door.

Nancy’s hiding place was anything but comfortable. It was dark and musty
and old clothing hung from nails. As dust assailed her nostrils, she
held a handkerchief to her face lest she sneeze.

“If I sneeze they’ll he sure to find me,” she told herself. “They’ll
know well enough it isn’t an animal, even a cat.”

She felt around and once came close to catching her hand on a sharp
nail. Then she felt something soft on a shelf and imagined it was a
sleeping cat. She drew back, then felt more cautiously.

“Only an old fur cap,” she told herself, in disgust, “and probably full
of moths. Gracious, now I feel like sneezing worse than ever!”

She held her hand over her mouth hard and waited in agony. But presently
the desire to sneeze passed and Nancy breathed more freely.

When she dared to peep out through the crack a second time, she saw that
two other men had come into the room. From their appearance she knew
that they must be members of the robber gang. The first man seemed to be
their leader, for he proceeded to issue orders.

“Get a move on!” he growled. “We haven’t got all day unless we want to
be caught. Take that dresser out of here first.”

The two men lifted the heavy piece of furniture and started with it to
the door. But they did not move swiftly enough to satisfy the leader,
and he berated them savagely.

“If you were in such a hurry why didn’t you back the van up to the door
instead of leaving it hidden in the bushes?” one of the men retorted
angrily.

“Yes, and have someone see us from the road!” sneered the leader.

“Well, carry this out yourself if you think it’s so light!”

From her hiding place, Nancy Drew watched the men as they deliberately
stripped the room of everything valuable. Piece by piece they carried
out the furniture, but the girl was given no opportunity to escape, for
the leader of the gang remained in the room while the others made the
trip to the van.

“Well, I guess we have everything now,” the leader muttered at last.

He turned to follow his companions, who already had gone to the truck,
but in the doorway paused for a last careful survey of the room.

At that fateful moment there came a muffled sneeze from the closet.

The robber wheeled about. Walking directly to the closet, he flung open
the door and exposed poor Nancy, who was crouching in the far corner.
Angrily, he jerked her out.

“Spying on us, eh?” he snarled.

Nancy Drew eyed the man defiantly.

“I wasn’t spying.”

“Then what were you doing in that closet?”

“I came to see the caretaker.”

“Looking for him in a funny place, ain’t you?” sneered the man.

Nancy realized that she was in a desperate situation. The look on the
robber’s face frightened her.

“I heard someone coming and I was afraid,” she explained lamely.

“Well, it was unhealthy business that brought you here,” the man told
her sharply. “What did you hear in that closet?” Without giving her an
opportunity to answer the question, he added with a scowl: “I warn you
this will be the last time you’ll ever stick your nose in business that
doesn’t concern you!”

As Nancy saw the expression on the man’s face, there was no mistaking
the ugly threat. One glance assured her that she could expect no mercy.
The hopelessness of her situation gave her the courage to defy him.

“I didn’t hear much, but I saw plenty!” she cried. “You’re nothing but a
common thief, and if I get the chance I’ll turn you and your gang over
to the police!”

“If you get the chance—that’s good.” The robber laughed mirthlessly.
“I’ll do with you as I did the caretaker.”

“The caretaker!” Nancy gasped in horror. “What have you done with him?”

“You’ll find out all in good time.”

The man held Nancy’s wrists in a viselike grip. Her efforts to free
herself were of no avail.

“It won’t do you any good to try to get away,” her captor informed her.

Nancy was desperate. Suddenly, utilizing every ounce of her strength,
she gave her imprisoned wrists a quick upward jerk. As the action tore
her hands free, she darted for the door.

With a cry of rage, the robber was after her. Almost in one long leap he
overtook her, caught her roughly by the arm, and forced her against the
wall.

“Not much you don’t!” he snarled.

[Illustration: _The Secret of the Old Clock._     _Frontispiece (Page
131)_

“NOT MUCH YOU DON’T,” HE SNARLED.]

Nancy Drew struggled this way and that. She twisted and squirmed. She
kicked and clawed. But she was powerless in the grip of the man.

“Little wildcat! You won’t do any more scratching when I get through
with you!”

“Let me go!” Nancy cried, struggling harder.

The man half-carried, half-dragged her across the room. Opening the
closet door, he flung her roughly inside.

Nancy heard a key turn in the lock. The sliding of a bolt into place
followed.

“Now you can starve for all I care!” the man laughed harshly.

Then the steady tramp of his heavy boots across the floor told Nancy
Drew that he had left the house.

When the sound of the footsteps had died away, Nancy Drew was overcome
with panic. A feeling of desperation came over her. She realized that
the robber had dared to carry out his ugly threat. He had locked her in
the closet and had left her there to starve.

At first Nancy was too frightened to think logically. She beat
frantically upon the door with her fists, but the heavy oak panels did
not give.

“Help! Help!” she screamed.

At last, exhausted by her efforts to force the door open, she fell down
upon the floor, a dejected, crushed little figure.

“Maybe those men will come back later and let me out,” she tried to
encourage herself. “Surely, they can’t be so heartless as to leave me
here to starve.”

But even as the thought came to her, she heard the muffled roar of a
heavy truck as it passed the Topham bungalow on the way to the road.
With a feeling of utter hopelessness, Nancy heard the van depart. She
knew for a certainty the cruel, hardened rascals were indifferent to her
plight. They had abandoned her to a horrible fate.

The house was as silent as a tomb. Although Nancy had little hope that
there was anyone within miles of the cottage, she again raised her voice
and shouted for help. Her cries echoed through the empty house and
seemed to mock her.

“Oh, why didn’t I have sense enough to tell Helen Corning where I was
going!” she thought miserably. “She believed I was starting for home.
The girls will never dream that I came here.”

And her father thought that she intended to remain at the camp for a
week! He would not become alarmed over her absence until it was too
late. Oh, if only she had never left her home in River Heights!

“Someone may find my roadster at the side of the road,” Nancy reasoned,
“but it isn’t very likely. Few persons pass this way so late in the
season.”

What had become of Jeff Tucker, the caretaker? Certainly she could
expect no aid from that quarter. The robber had hinted that he had done
away with the old colored man, and, knowing the character of the
rascals, it was impossible not to believe the worst.

As the full significance of the situation dawned upon the girl, panic
again took possession of her. In a desperate attempt to break down the
door, she threw her weight against it again and again. She pounded upon
the panels until her fingers were bruised and bleeding.

At last she sank down on the floor to rest and tried to force herself to
reason calmly.

“I’m only wasting my strength this way. I must try to think logically.
If I don’t, I’m lost.”

Nancy Drew recalled that she had once read that it was possible to pick
a lock with a hairpin. Feeling in her hair, she found a heavy wire one
and began to work at the lock. But in the darkness she could not see and
she made little progress. After fifteen minutes she gave the task up in
disgust.

“It’s no use,” she decided miserably, “I’m afraid I’ll never get out.”

She began to think of her father, of Helen Corning, and other dear
friends. Would she ever see them again? As despondency claimed Nancy she
was dangerously near tears. Resolutely, she tried to shake off the mood.

“This will never do,” she told herself sternly. “Surely, there is a way
to get out of here. I must keep my head and try to think of something.”

After a time, as a new idea occurred to the girl, she began to rummage
about in the closet, hoping that by some lucky chance she might find a
tool which would help her force the lock of the door. She searched
carefully through the pockets of every garment which hung from the
hooks. She groped over every inch of the floor.

She found nothing of value, and the cloud of dust which was stirred up
made breathing more difficult than before. The closet had become
uncomfortably warm by this time.

Then unexpectedly, Nancy’s head struck something hard. Quickly
investigating, she discovered a narrow wooden rod suspended overhead.
Evidently it had once been used for dress and coat hangars as it was
fastened to either wall and ran the length of the closet.

“If I could get that rod down, I might be able to use it to break out a
panel of the door,” Nancy thought hopefully. “It feels strong and it’s
about the right size.”

She tugged at the rod with all her might. To her satisfaction, one side
gave. Another hard jerk brought the rod down on her head.

To her bitter disappointment, Nancy found as she examined the rod that
it was too long to use as a ram. But after a little experimentation, she
discovered that she could press it into service as a wedge.

Inserting it in the crack between the hinges, she threw all of her
weight against the rod. At first the door did not budge.

“Archimedes didn’t know what he was talking about when he said the world
could be moved with a lever,” Nancy murmured. “I’d like to see him move
this door!”

As she applied steady pressure to the rod a second time, she saw that
the hinges were beginning to give. Encouraged, she applied more force.

“It’s coming!” she cried.

Once more she threw her weight against the rod. A hinge tore from the
casing and the door sagged. It was now easy to insert the wedge, and
Nancy knew that success would soon be hers.

Then, just as another hinge gave way, she was startled to hear
footsteps. Someone came running into the bedroom, and a heavy body
hurled itself against the door of the closet.

The unexpected action stunned Nancy. Could it be that one of the robbers
had heard the noise she had made and had returned to make sure that she
did not escape? She discarded the theory as quickly as it came to her.
The robbers were far too wise to tarry, once their disgraceful work had
been accomplished. Then, too, she had heard their moving van leave.

Frantically, Nancy rattled the door knob.

“Oh, you is a caged lion, dis time,” a rather unsteady voice remarked.
“You is one o’ dese tough robber boys, is you? Well, you won’t do no mo’
pilferrin’, ’cause I done got you surrounded.”

“Let me out!” Nancy pleaded. “I’m not a robber!”

The sound of a feminine voice coming from the closet nonplussed the man.

“Say, robber boy, is you imitatin’ a lady’s voice to th’o’ me off de
scent? If you is, it won’t do no good ’cause I’s a natural-born,
two-legged blood houn’.”

Nancy thought of a way to convince him. She let go her longest and
loudest feminine scream.

“Dat’s enough! Hold yo’ siren! I’ll let you out. Dar ain’t a man in de
world could make a racket like dat! Dis way out, lady!”

Expectantly, Nancy waited, but the door did not open.

“My Lawdy!” she heard to her horror. “I’s done gone and misplaced de
key!”

There was another long wait and then, to her relief, Nancy Drew heard a
key turn in the look and then a bolt shot back. Quickly she pushed the
closet door open and stepped out into the light.

She stood face to face with Jeff Tucker, the colored caretaker employed
by the Tophams. The robbers had led her to believe that they had harmed
the old fellow, and Nancy was glad to see him well and happy—albeit a
little too happy, for Jeff Tucker plainly had had a bit too much to
drink.

Jeff still knew very well what was going on about him, but a certain
alcoholic glitter in his eyes and his somewhat unsteady stance informed
Nancy that he was not just as sober as the proverbial judge. She
suspected that while he had been absent on his convivial celebration,
the robbers had made off with the Topham furniture, for even in his
condition of semi-inebriety Jeff seemed to realize that something was
amiss. He stared at Nancy, then his eyes roved about the topsy-turvy
room.

“Say, white gu’l, you tell me wheah all dis heah fu’niture is at!”

Nancy smiled in spite of herself at the old caretaker’s bewilderment,
for try as he might, he evidently could not rationalize the situation.

“The most definite information I can give you,” she said, “is that some
robbers carted it away. If you had been here attending to your duty, it
would never have happened.”

“’At’s right! ’At’s right! Blame me! I ain’t s’posed to be no standin’
ahmy—I’s just a plain culled man with a wife and seven chillun
a-dependin’ on me. No mom! I ain’t havin’ no truck wit’ dem machine-gun
boys!”

Jeff paused and passed his hand over his forehead as if he were trying
to wipe away the alcoholic cobwebs that were accumulating about his
perceptive faculties. Then suddenly he pointed a bony finger at Nancy
and demanded:

“How come you heah?”

“That’s a fine question for you to ask!” replied Nancy indulgently. “But
I don’t mind telling you. I arrived just as the robbers were hauling off
the last of the furniture. They locked me in the closet. I must have
been there for hours.”

“You was in dat dah closet all dat time!” Jeff’s voice suddenly took on
a pathetic tone. “You po’h chile! Suppose you had o’ stahved to death in
dah, or da house had burned down, or you was scared into fits, or——”

“There now, Jeff. Don’t take on about what might have happened to me.
I’m all right.”

Nancy determined to try persuasion on the old fellow in order to find
out what had happened to him.

“Tell me, where you were last night,” she suggested gently.

“Well, Miss, it was dis heah way: I was out in dah yard a-chorin’ around
last night and a-thinkin’ how I wished I was some place whah I
wasn’t—just any place, I didn’t mind wheah. I was just all fed up bein’
a caih-taker and takin’ caih o’ all dis truck from mornin’ till night.
It ain’t such an excitin’ life, Miss, and while I’s done sowed all mah
wild oats, I still sows a little rye now and den.”

“Yes, Jeff—I can smell that on your breath right now.”

Jeff wiped the back of his hand over his mouth in an apparent effort to
keep his rye-laden breath from being propagated into the atmosphere.

“You cain’t blame me, Miss,” he protested. “_He_ give it to me.”

“Who is this ‘he’?”

“Why, dat white man who drives up in de big see-dan. He sees me out thah
and knows how lonesome and useless I feels, so he says: ‘Jeff, hop in. I
know a place where!’ So in I hops. Course I locked up dis heah house and
de bahn and seen dat everything was safe.”

“Safe! From the looks of this room one could hardly call it that!”

“Oh, well, Miss, it looked safe and I felt safe too when we whizzed off
in dat big cah. Den dis white man he says: ‘Jeff, how about a little
drink?’ An’ I says, ‘I don’t mind, seein’ it’s you.’ Den I had one and
some mo’ too I guess, cause aftah while I didn’t feel like I was ridin’
in no automobeel at all. I thought dat de chariot had done gone an’
swung low an’ I was a-bein’ wafted off to some place in de gen’ral
direction o’ heaven!”

“Well, that was a fine thing to do, I must say,” Nancy commented. “Then
what happened?”

“I comes to. I sees I ain’t in no chariot no mo’ but I’s in a ho-tel.
And I’s in bed and I’s feelin’ pow’fui sickish-like and discouraged.
Well, I gets my clo’es on and I sees mah keys to de house is done been
pilfehed. Den I tries to recollect what done come to pass and I gets
s’picious. I says to myself, ‘Jeff, how come dat white man so friendly?
How come he give you drinks dat costs fo’ dollars a pint. How come you
ain’t got no keys? Black boy, bestir yo’-self.’ And here I is!”

“Oh, yes, you’re here all right,” Nancy returned severely. “And a fine
mess you’ve made of it, too. What do you think Mrs. Topham will say when
she learns?”

Jeff rolled his eyes.

“Lawdy, Miss! What _will_ she say? I reckon I’s done gone and discharged
myself.”

“It would be only what you deserve, Jeff. You were unfaithful to your
trust.”

“What you mean, Miss, trust? I don’t trust nobody no mo’—especially no
foot-loose white boys a-travelin’ around in see-dans.”

“You don’t understand. I mean you didn’t treat Mrs. Topham right in
going off.”

“I reckon you’s right, Miss. Ole Jeff done gone and made a fool of
himself. I realize dat whatever I gets, I’s got it a-comin’.”

A tear rolled out on Jeff’s black, furrowed old cheek, and he wiped it
away with his handkerchief.

“There, Jeff,” Nancy said consolingly. “Let’s forget about what has been
done and think about what we can do to straighten things out. I’ll try
to help you. We must report the robbery to the police right away. Is
there a telephone in the house?”

“No, Miss. We ain’t got no telephone heah. We always uses de R. F. D.”

“Then we shall have to go to town as quickly as we can in my car. Do you
suppose that you would recognize the man who enticed you away, Jeff?”

“Say, would I ’member him? I’d recognize dat man in a bootleggah’s
convention. He was tall an’ slick-lookin’ with a kind of a ‘gimme’ look
in his eyes. Yes mom! I suah would know dat baby!”

Before leading the way to her roadster, Nancy Drew thought of the old
Crowley clock again and all that it might mean in the solving of the
mystery of the will. Jeff, as caretaker, would surely know whether or
not it was in the bungalow before the robbery.

“Tell me something, Jeff,” she said. “Was there an old clock in the
house—a tall, square-faced, mantel clock?”

“Yes, Miss. But all I ever done to it was dust it. I never wound it up
to see if it would run. I’s got a watch o’ my own.” Jeff punctuated his
remarks by taking a large, silver, open-face watch from his pocket and
holding it to his ear. “She’s done run down too. I reckon dat I was in
dat ho-tel when I should o’ been tendin’ to dis watch.”

“Never mind the watch, Jeff. You’re sure there was a clock in the house
then?”

“Oh, I’s dead rights on dat, Miss. Dar suah was! I recollects dat clock
just as plain as day. I wouldn’t fohget dat clock. No, mom, never!”

Nancy now felt almost certain that this was the clock which contained
the notebook telling of what disposal had been made of the Crowley will
and that it had been stolen by the robbers.

She must recover the clock! And there was only one way. The thieves must
be apprehended and the stolen good returned. With this thought in her
mind, she rushed out toward her roadster, calling to Jeff to follow.

“I’s a-comin Miss,” Jeff called. “Just a minute!”

He half-hobbled off behind the house out of Nancy’s sight, while she sat
waiting impatiently in her roadster. She started the engine and warmed
it up, but Jeff still failed to return.

She called to him, but there was no response. Finally, she could stand
the suspense no longer. Jumping to the ground, she set off to find out
what had become of the old scamp.

She found Jeff leisurely performing an elaborate facial ablution at the
cistern pump. He would pump his hands full of water and then, with a
great spluttering noise, dash it against his face.

“For goodness’s sake, Jeff,” said Nancy, provoked, as she came upon him.
“Don’t you realize I’ve been waiting for you? Those robbers will
probably be in the next state before we even succeed in notifying the
police.”

“’Scuse me, Miss, but I’s takin’ a little wash.”

“I see you are. But can’t that wait?”

“But dis heah wash is impohtant. I just wants to git good and sober
befo’ I goes into dat po-lice station, and dis cold water is good fo’
what ails me.”

Coax, wheedle or threaten, Nancy was unable to hurry Jeff a minute. But
at last he had finished, and Nancy, with a sigh of relief, loaded him
into the waiting roadster.

As she stepped upon the accelerator and the car moved slowly out onto
the highway, she wondered where the old Crowley clock was now and
whether she would ever be able to recover it from the thieves.

It was probably fortunate for Nancy Drew that the traffic police were
not patrolling the road, for as she opened the throttle wider and wider,
her roadster responded with a surge of power that sent the car along at
breath-taking speed.

“Dis ole bus can suah step,” observed Jeff. “’Spose it turns turtle?”

“Don’t worry, Jeff. It won’t. I know this roadster.”

Nancy Drew did know the limit to which she dared go. She guided the car
skillfully and in a short time they were entering the outskirts of
Melborne, the nearest town to the Topham bungalow.

“Bettah slow down now, Miss,” Jeff cautioned. “De marshal of dis town is
mighty persnickitty about how folks acts. He’s run me in mo’n once.”

“For speeding?”

“No, just fo’ enjoyin’ myself.”

“Then I suppose you can tell me where the jail is.”

“’Deed I can, Miss. I suah can! Fact is, dis is my favorite jail. You
goes right down Central Avenue to Maple Street and turns to de left, and
dar you is.”

The roadster stopped in front of the building with a lurch, and Nancy
stepped out briskly, with Jeff following at a more leisurely gait.

“I must see an officer,” Nancy announced as she entered the office. “I
want to report a robbery.”

A buzzer rang and soon a marshal, followed by several men, entered.
Nancy quickly told them all she know about the Topham robbery, and to
corroborate what she had said, she called Jeff for his version.

“She speaks de troof,” testified Jeff, “’cept she don’t make it strong
enough. First thing dey kidnaps me so I won’t be around to raise no
ruckus. Den dey gives me some kind of a sleepin’ powdah and pahks me in
a ho-tel. But I comes to and goes back, and dar I find dis gu’l cooped
up in a closet just as she told you. And dey wrecked Mis’ Topham’s house
and stole all de furniture.”

The marshal and his men listened attentively, and plied Nancy with
questions to clear up certain points.

“Have you any idea which road they took?” the marshal asked her.

“Yes, sir. I examined the tire tracks where the thieves had backed a
truck up to the house and noticed the pattern they made in the turf.
When we passed the road-crossing a few miles out of town, I saw the same
tracks just off to the side of the road where they had slipped off in
turning their truck northward.”

“Can you lead the way?”

“Yes, I’ll do everything in my power to help.”

The marshal terminated the interview by giving curt orders to his
deputies.

“Get your automobile started,” he directed Nancy. “We’ll follow in the
police car.”

“Hurry!” Nancy begged as she turned toward the door. “Those men have
nearly an hour’s start of us now!”

Hastily, she ran to the street and sprang into the roadster. Starting
the motor, she waited impatiently for the marshal and his men to appear.
After a seemingly interminable wait, they came out, buckling on
holsters.

They piled into the “police car” which stood at the curbing and the
marshal took the wheel. After several unsuccessful attempts he started
the motor. Jeff Tucker, who had followed the men from the office, would
have inflicted his person upon the already overburdened car, but as he
attempted to gain the running board, he was forced gently but firmly
back upon the sidewalk.

“Follow me!” Nancy cried to the marshal.

Shifting gears, she started off down the road. At the corner she looked
back to see that the police car was following, and caught a glimpse of
Jeff Tucker who stood gazing mournfully after the departing automobiles.

At the edge of town, Nancy selected the road which she felt certain the
robbers had taken. Her high-powered roadster was built for speed and
several times she was forced to slow down in order that the marshal and
his men might keep her in sight.

Nancy had gone perhaps eight or nine miles when unexpectedly she came to
a fork in the road. Uncertain which branch-off to take, she brought the
roadster to a halt. The police car pulled up alongside.

“What’s the matter now?” the marshal called out.

“I don’t know which way to go.”

The marshal and his deputies sprang from their automobile and began to
examine the tracks in the road. But if a moving van had passed that way,
the tire marks had been obliterated by other vehicles. There was no clue
to indicate which route the robbers had selected.

“They must have taken the righthand fork,” the marshal hazarded.

Nancy shook her head doubtfully.

“Doesn’t the lefthand road lead to Garwin?” The marshal nodded.

“Then it strikes me the robbers would have taken that road. It seems
reasonable that they would head for a large city where they could
dispose of the stolen goods.”

“Maybe you’re right,” the marshal admitted reluctantly.

“I’ll tell you what we’ll do,” Nancy proposed, as she had an
inspiration. “You take the righthand road and I’ll head for Garwin.”

“And if you should overtake those rascals, what would you do?” the
marshal demanded in some amusement. “You couldn’t expect to stop them
single-handed.”

“I wouldn’t try. I’d race back and give the alarm. Hurry! Every minute
that we delay gives them just that greater advantage!”

Without waiting until the marshal had returned to his automobile, Nancy
Drew backed her car and headed down the lefthand road. The highway was
smooth, and as there was a clear stretch ahead, she drove rapidly. She
realized that already the robbers had a big start, and that if once they
reached Garwin she could not hope to overtake them.

“I’m sure I’m on the right trail,” she told herself. “That other road
doesn’t lead anywhere in particular.”

After she had traveled several miles, Nancy became less confident.
Although she had passed a number of side roads, she had kept to the main
highway, and she realized that it would have been easy for the moving
van to elude pursuit by taking any one of the branches.

“Still, the robbers can’t know that they are being followed,” she
reasoned. “It’s likely they’ll be off their guard.”

Fifteen minutes passed, and Nancy began to fear that after all she had
selected the wrong road at the fork. Presently, as she noticed a man
with a team of horses approaching, she determined to question him.

“Have you seen a large moving van on this road?” she called out as she
stopped the roadster alongside the wagon.

“A truck passed me about twenty minutes ago,” the farmer told her. “The
big road hog tried to push me into a ditch!”

Highly elated at the information, Nancy thanked the farmer and drove on.

“At the rate I’m going I should overtake the robbers in a few minutes,”
she thought. “Oh, if only I could get my hands on the Crowley clock
before the police confiscate the stolen goods!”

Ten minutes passed and then another ten. As Nancy gazed anxiously down
the road she could see no sign of the moving van.

“I’ve missed them somewhere,” she decided, in disappointment. “There’s
nothing to do but go back.”

Nancy Drew recalled the fact that she had passed a roadhouse less than a
mile back, and it occurred to her that possibly the robbers had stopped
there.

“I’ll go back there and make inquiry,” she thought. “I haven’t gone by a
single cross road since I talked with that farmer, so if the robbers
didn’t stop at the roadhouse I can’t imagine what became of them. If
they were on this road I am certain I would have passed them by this
time.”

Dusk was approaching, and Nancy Drew knew that if she were ever to find
the robbers it must be within the next hour. Skillfully, she turned the
roadster around in the road. A few minutes of fast driving brought her
within sight of the roadhouse.

The place was of disreputable appearance, and Nancy suspected that it
might be a bad resort to visit. It stood back from the road a short
distance, and was half-hidden by tall trees. The building was large and
rambling, but rather old and sadly in need of paint. A sign on the gate
read: “The Black Horse.” Beyond the inn, Nancy caught a glimpse of a
garage and a large stable.

She did not enter the private driveway which led to the inn, but stopped
her car at the side of the road. Before starting to walk toward the
roadhouse, she hesitated.

“I don’t like to go in there, but there’s no other way,” she decided.

She walked briskly up the path, glancing about in all directions for a
sign of a moving van. The door of the garage was closed as was the door
of the barn, and the thought occurred to her that perhaps the robbers
had parked their van inside one of the buildings.

As she drew near the inn, Nancy approached cautiously. As she stepped
upon the veranda, coarse laughter reached her ears. She tiptoed to a
window and peered inside. What she saw caused her to start in surprise.

In a dingy, dimly lighted room, three men were seated about a table,
obviously engaged in a drinking orgy. They were the three men who had
robbed the Topham bungalow!

“I must notify the marshal at once!” Nancy Drew told herself as she
recognized the three robbers.

Turning away from the window, she crept noiselessly from the porch and
as soon as she was a safe distance from the inn, broke into a run. As
she stepped into her roadster, a sudden thought occurred to her.

“Those robbers must have parked their van in the garage back of the inn.
If only I could get my hands on the clock before I notify the police!
Once the marshal takes charge of the stolen goods, I’ll have no
opportunity.”

Motivated by the impulse, Nancy drove on down the road a short distance,
and, rounding a bend, came up on another side road which led into the
woods directly behind the inn. Stopping the roadster where it would be
hidden by the trees, she got out and hurried through the timber. Before
leaving the car, she had secured her flashlight, for already it was
growing dark.

Cautiously, she approached the inn from the rear. Reaching the garage,
she found the doors closed, but investigation disclosed that they had
not been locked.

She opened one of the doors and looked inside. There was no sign of a
truck—only a battered old Ford car.

“They must have parked the van in the barn,” she decided.

As she opened the stable door, it squeaked in an alarming fashion.
Anxiously, she glanced toward the inn, but so far as she could tell her
actions were unobserved. There was no one in sight.

Flinging the door wide, the girl peered hopefully into the dark
interior. A low cry escaped from her lips.

There in front of her stood the moving van!

“What a piece of luck!” she exclaimed, as she viewed the truck which the
robbers had left in the barn. “Now if I can only find the clock!”

With a last cautious glance in the direction of the roadhouse, she
hastily closed the barn door lest it swing in the wind and attract
attention. With the doors shut, the interior of the barn was dark.

As Nancy switched on her automobile flashlight and played it over the
moving van, she was disappointed to note that it was a covered one. The
rear doors were closed. Nevertheless, although she could not see inside,
she was certain the truck contained the goods stolen only a few hours
before from the Topham bungalow.

Securing a firm grip on the door handle, she gave it a quick turn. To
her surprise, the door did not open.

With an exclamation of disappointment, Nancy turned her flashlight on it
and for the first time noticed the keyhole. The robbers had locked the
van!

“Oh, dear, now what shall I do?” she questioned frantically. “I’ll never
be able to break the lock.”

Desperately, she glanced about. She dared not remain many minutes in the
barn lest the robbers return and find her there. Yet she could not admit
defeat.

“Perhaps the keys were left in the ignition switch,” she thought
hopefully.

She rushed to the front of the van and clambered into the driver’s seat.
An examination of the dashboard did not reveal the keys hanging from the
ignition switch.

“The robbers must have taken the keys with them,” she told herself.

Nancy was discouraged. She was on the point of admitting defeat when a
thought came to her.

Among her acquaintances there were a number of persons who upon occasion
hid their automobile keys under the front seat. It was barely possible
that the robbers had done likewise.

Nancy hastily pulled up the leather seat and looked underneath. A ray of
her flashlight illuminated a small object in one corner. Eagerly, she
snatched it up and saw that it was a key ring.

“Luck was with me once,” she murmured, as she ran back to the rear of
the van.

After trying several of the keys, she at last found one which would fit
the lock. Turning it, she jerked open the door. As she flashed her light
about inside the truck she saw that she had made no mistake. The van
contained the stolen goods and it was loaded nearly to the top.

[Illustration: _The Secret of the Old Clock._     _Frontispiece (Page
158)_

AS SHE FLASHED HER LIGHT ABOUT SHE SAW THAT SHE HAD MADE NO MISTAKE.]

“What shall I do if the clock is on the bottom?” Nancy groaned as
another problem occurred to her, “I’ll never find it.”

Dexterously, she swung herself up on the load. She flashed the light
about on chairs, tables, rugs and boxes. There was no sign of the
Crowley clock.

Then the beam rested for a moment upon an object in a far corner, and
with a low cry of delight Nancy saw that her search had been rewarded.
Protected by a blanket, an old fashioned mantel clock rested on top of a
center table in the very front of the van!

She scrambled laboriously over odd pieces of furniture as she tried to
reach the clock. Her dress caught on something sharp and tore, but Nancy
did not heed it. She snatched at the blanket and swept the clock toward
her.

One glance at the timepiece assured her that it fit the description
Abigail Rowen had given her. It had a square face and the top was
ornamented with a crescent. Nancy was almost certain that it was the
Crowley clock.

But as she stood staring at it, her keen ears detected the sound of
voices outside the barn. The robbers were coming back!

“I’m lost!” flashed through her mind.

Clutching the blanket and the clock tightly in her arms, Nancy Drew
partly crawled and partly fell over objects as she struggled to get out
of the truck before it was too late. She was afraid to think what would
happen to her if the robbers discovered her in the van.

Reaching the door, she leaped lightly to the floor. She could now hear
heavy footsteps coming closer and closer.

Nancy slammed the truck doors shut and searched wildly for the keys.

“Oh, what did I do with them?” she thought frantically.

She saw that they had fallen from the door to the floor and snatched
them up. Hurriedly inserting the right key in the lock, she secured the
doors.

The deed was not accomplished a minute too soon. As Nancy wheeled about
she distinctly heard the murmur of angry voices outside. The robbers
were quarreling among themselves, and already someone was working at the
fastening of the barn door.

Escape was cut off. Nancy felt that she was cornered.

“Oh, what shall I do?” she thought in despair.

While Nancy Drew hesitated, uncertain which way to turn, her mind worked
more clearly than ever before.

She realized instantly that she could not hope to run to the front of
the car and place the keys under the seat where she had found them.
Instead of attempting the impossible, she flung them upon the floor.

Then glancing frantically about for a hiding place, she saw an empty
manger. Running to it, she scrambled inside and dropped the blanket over
her head just as one of the barn doors swung open.

Three men came in, closing the door after them, and, as Nancy had
suspected, they were the robbers. Evidently, they had been drinking, for
they were quarreling among themselves over the division of spoils.

“Aw, shut up,” the leader growled. “Get in and let’s be getting out of
here before we have the cops down on our heads.”

Nancy heard him rummaging under the seat of the car.

“Say, what did you do with them keys?” he demanded harshly of one of his
men.

“What do you suppose?” came the unpleasant response. “I put ’em under
the seat.”

“Then come and find them, and don’t be all day about it, either!”

“All right. Get out of the way and give me a chance!”

As the second robber went to the truck and began a careful search for
the keys, Nancy Drew crouched fearfully in her hiding place.

“I don’t see what could have happened to them keys,” the robber
complained after an unsuccessful search. “I put ’em right under this
seat.”

“Say, if you’ve lost ’em—” the leader did not finish the threat, for at
that moment the third robber stooped over and picked up something at his
feet.

“Here they are on the floor! You must have put ’em in your pocket and
dropped ’em out.”

“I didn’t!” the other retorted. “I never had them keys in my pocket.”

The robbers were in a quarrelsome mood and would have engaged in a
battle then and there had not the leader interposed.

“Say, cut out the comedy! We ain’t got no time for a fight unless we
want to land behind the bars!”

“And if we do, it will be your fault! You left that girl to starve—”

“Shut up!” the leader snarled. He rattled the rear door of the van and
found it locked. “There’s no harm done this time. No one has meddled
with the truck. Now get in before I give you a swift kick!”

After a few more angry words, the three robbers climbed into the front
seat and started the engine. Due to their inebriated condition they had
overlooked the barn doors, and before the van could be backed from the
building, it was necessary for one of the men to get out and fasten them
back.

In relief Nancy watched the men go. The moment they were a safe distance
from the barn, she scrambled out of the manger.

She paused long enough to make certain that the van had taken the road
to Garwin. Then, clutching the precious clock in her arms, she turned
and ran.

As Nancy darted into the woods, she cast an anxious glance over her
shoulder, but to her intense relief she saw that she was not being
followed. There was no one to be seen in the vicinity of the roadhouse,
and the big moving van was proceeding slowly on its way toward Garwin,
the occupants oblivious that their whereabouts had been discovered.

“I had a narrow escape that time,” Nancy told herself as she ran. “I
hate to think of my fate if I had been discovered.” She chuckled softly
at her own bravado and clutched the mantel clock more tightly in her
arms. “Oh, well, it was worth the risk I took!”

It was dark in the woods and Nancy could see only a few feet ahead of
her. To her chagrin she discovered that she had left her automobile
flashlight somewhere in the barn, probably in the manger. There was no
time to go back after it. Confident that her sense of direction was
good, she plunged through the bushes toward the place where she had
parked her roadster.

“I’m sure the clock is the right one,” she thought. “Now, if it only
contains Josiah Crowley’s notebook!”

In the timber there was insufficient light for her to examine the clock,
but from the hasty glance she had given it in the barn, she was almost
certain it was the timepiece Abigail Rowen had described to her. If the
old woman’s story was correct, she would find Josiah Crowley’s notebook
inside.

Reaching the roadster and finding it exactly as she had left it, the
girl sprang inside.

“I’ll go for the police as fast as I can and send them after the
robbers,” she decided. “The Tophams don’t deserve any consideration, but
I couldn’t be mean enough to sit quietly by and let them lose their
household goods.”

Then, as she was about to start the motor, her glance fell upon the
Crowley clock which she had placed on the seat beside her. She was
fairly overcome with curiosity to learn what it would reveal. As she
hesitated, she found it impossible to resist the temptation of
investigating it immediately, even at the cost of a few minutes delay.

Impulsively, she opened the glass door and ran her hand around the
walls. There was nothing inside.

“Gone!” Nancy groaned.

Could it be that the Tophams had discovered the notebook only to destroy
it? Nancy discarded the thought as quickly as it came to mind, for she
recalled the conversation she had overheard between Ada and Isabel. No,
they were as ignorant as herself concerning the location of the will.

It was more likely that Abigail Rowen had been confused in her story.
After all, she had not declared that the notebook would be found inside
the clock. Nancy had made the deduction herself.

“I was almost certain I’d find the notebook,” she murmured in
disappointment. “It must be here somewhere.”

Turning the clock upside down, she gave it a hard shake. Something
rattled. Hopefully, she repeated the action. Unquestionably, there was
something bulky inside.

“It must be the notebook!” Nancy thought in excitement. “Unless I’m
wrong, it’s behind the face! How can I get it off?”

After a vain attempt to remove the heavy cardboard face with her
fingers, she lifted the automobile seat and found a small tool with
which she could pry. It then required but an instant to remove the two
hands of the clock and jerk off the face.

As the cardboard fell to the floor, Nancy peered hopefully inside and
gave a low cry of delight.

“Eureka!”

There, at one side of the clock, attached to a hook in the top, dangled
a tiny blue notebook!

Eagerly, Nancy Drew tore the little notebook from the hook. The light
was dim, but by holding the book directly under the dashlight, she could
make out the words on the cover: “The Property of Josiah Crowley.”

“I’ve found it at last!” she cried.

Quickly turning the first few pages, she saw that they were yellowed
with age. The writing was fine and cramped, and the ink had faded. These
pages were crowded with business notations, but in the poor light it was
next to impossible to make out the words.

Nancy was excited, for she was positive that the notebook would disclose
what Josiah Crowley had done with his will. Yet, she realized that she
could not hope to read through the book without a considerable loss of
precious time. If she were to report the whereabouts of the robbers to
the police, she must not delay another instant.

“I’ll read the notebook later,” she decided.

Hurriedly replacing it on the hook inside the clock, she tacked on the
face again. Then dropping the timepiece on the seat beside her, she
covered it with a blanket.

Starting the engine, she skillfully backed the roadster and headed for
the main road. Reaching the highway, she cast an anxious glance in the
direction the robbers had taken. There was no sign of a light on the
road. The moving van had disappeared.

“I must travel some now,” Nancy told herself grimly. “Those robbers have
at least ten minutes start, and I may have trouble finding the marshal
and his deputies.”

Bending low over the steering wheel, she deliberately stepped hard on
the accelerator. The roadster leaped forward as though it, too,
comprehended the need for haste.

“If those men reach Garwin before the marshal overtakes them, there
won’t be one chance in a hundred of capturing them,” Nancy thought. “It
was foolish of me to take time to look at the clock.”

Presently reaching the fork in the road, she selected the right hand
turn, and with undiminished speed rushed on. She had gone several miles
beyond the fork when far ahead she caught sight of an automobile
headlight. Nancy promptly reduced the speed of the car.

“The marshal and his deputies may have given up the search and are
coming back,” she reasoned. “I must be careful not to pass them.”

As the automobile approached, Nancy slowed her roadster practically to a
standstill. Then as she recognized the police car, she brought her own
automobile to a halt. As the marshal and his deputies flashed by, she
cried out for them to stop.

There was a loud screeching of brakes as the police car came to an
abrupt halt. Springing from the roadster, Nancy ran forward.

“Quick!” she called to the marshal. “The robbers have taken the road to
Garwin! If you hurry you can overtake them! Go on and I’ll follow!”

Without waiting for more, the marshal and his deputies drove off at top
speed. The automobile rounded a bend and was lost to view.

For an instant Nancy Drew stood looking after it. Then, springing into
her roadster, she, too, was off.

Following close behind the police car, the girl sped down the road in
pursuit of the robbers. The two automobiles passed the roadhouse beyond
the fork and raced toward Garwin.

“We should have overtaken the robbers by this time,” Nancy told herself
anxiously, after a number of miles had been traversed and still there
was no sight of a moving van. “They can’t have gone very far.”

Ten minutes passed. Then, unexpectedly, she caught a glimpse of a red
tail light on the road far ahead.

“It must be the van!” Nancy thought. “The light doesn’t appear to be
moving fast enough for an automobile.”

Evidently, the marshal and his deputies were of the same opinion, for at
that moment the police car slowed down.

“Don’t fire unless it’s necessary,” the marshal ordered his men. “But if
they resist, pepper them!”

Cautiously, the police car approached. As the headlight played upon the
rear of the van, Nancy saw the license plate clearly and recognized the
numbers.

Then as the van pulled over to the side of the road, the police car
drove alongside.

“Halt!” came the order.

The van did not stop. Instead, it put on additional speed and crowded
the police car toward the ditch. Nancy’s heart was in her mouth as she
watched, for it seemed certain that the marshal and his deputies were
doomed.

At the very edge of the road, the police car by a sudden spurt of speed
forged ahead and averted disaster.

“Halt!” rang out the warning cry a second time. “Halt or we’ll fire!”

There was a sharp crack of a revolver as the robbers fired the first
shot.

The marshal and his deputies answered with a quick volley. One of the
shots found its mark—the front tire. The van swerved in the road, and
as the two side wheels went off into a steep ditch, toppled over.

In an instant the marshal and his men were out of the police car and had
covered the three robbers. So easily had the van tipped on its side that
the men were not injured, but the unexpected jar had thrown them off
their guard.

“Take their guns!” the marshal ordered.

A deputy relieved the three men of their revolvers and searched their
pockets for other dangerous weapons. Another deputy handcuffed them.

By this time Nancy, who had stopped her roadster at the side of the
road, reached the scene. As she came running up, the marshal turned to
her.

“Can you identify these men?”

As a light was flashed upon each of the robbers in turn, Nancy nodded.

“There is the man who locked me up and left me to starve,” she declared,
pointing to the leader of the robber band. “And the stolen goods are in
the van.”

“They’ll get ten or twenty years for this,” the marshal promised. “We’ll
hold them on several charges. You are willing to testify against them, I
suppose?”

“Yes, if it is necessary,” Nancy promised reluctantly. “But I don’t live
in this county and I’m anxious to get home right away. It seems to me
you have enough evidence to convict them.”

“Well, if you don’t want to I guess there’s no need for you to go back
with us,” the marshal admitted. “I’ll take your address and if your
testimony should be required later I’ll get in touch with you.”

As Nancy told the marshal her name and address, he glanced at her with
new interest.

“So you’re the daughter of Carson Drew! I see you’re following in his
footsteps. Starting in young, aren’t you?”

Nancy laughed.

“It was only an accident that took me to the Topham bungalow at the
critical moment,” she protested modestly. “I don’t deserve any credit
for the round-up.”

“Not many girls would have used their brains the way you did,” the
marshal observed. “Unless I’m mistaken, these robbers are old hands at
the game. They have been plying their trade around Moon Lake for a
number of seasons. The residents will be mighty grateful for what you’ve
done. And that Mrs. Topham you spoke of—she ought to give you a liberal
reward for saving her household goods.”

Nancy shook her head.

“I don’t want a reward.”

“Just the same you’ve earned one,” the marshal insisted. “If you’re shy
about blowing your own horn, I’ll take it up with this Mrs. Topham
myself.”

“You don’t know her as well as I do,” Nancy remarked. “She’ll not offer
a reward, and even if she did I wouldn’t accept it. In fact, I must ask
you not to mention my name to her at all.”

“You don’t want any credit for capturing the robbers?” the marshal
gasped in astonishment.

“No, I would prefer that my name not be mentioned in connection with the
affair. I have a particular reason for making the request.”

“Well, you’re a queer one,” the marshal remarked. “You’re the first
person I ever saw who didn’t want to take all the glory that was coming
to him.”

“You’ll not mention my name?”

“No, I’ll keep it mum,” the marshal promised. “And if you’re anxious not
to figure in the case, I guess we can get along without your testimony.”
He turned toward the moving van. “I’ll just have a look inside and see
if everything is here.”

Taking the keys which one of the deputies had turned over to him, the
marshal unlocked the rear doors of the van and carelessly glanced
inside.

“It’s all here,” he announced.

Nancy smiled and thought of the clock which at the moment was hidden
under a blanket in her roadster less than a dozen yards away.

“Let’s be getting away from here,” the marshal directed briskly. He
singled out one of the deputies. “You stay here and guard the stolen
goods until we can send another truck after it. I’ll see to it that
these robbers land behind bars, and then I’ll come back.”

“Just a minute,” Nancy interposed as the marshal was about to escort the
three robbers to the police car. “I want to ask a few questions.”

She turned to the leader of the robbers.

“It was you who stole the keys from Jeff Tucker after getting him drunk,
wasn’t it?”

“What if I did?” the robber growled. “I wish I’d finished him!”

Unceremoniously, the three prisoners were crowded into the police car.
One of the deputies took the steering wheel and another stood on the
running board, covering the robbers with his revolver. There was no room
left for the marshal.

“Are you going back through town?” he asked Nancy.

“Yes, it’s right on my way to River Heights,” she responded without a
thought as to the purpose of the question.

“Then if you don’t mind I’ll ride back with you. There isn’t room in the
police car.”

“Why—why, of course,” Nancy stammered.

At once she thought of the clock which she had left on the seat of the
roadster. What if the marshal should discover it?

Even as the thought came to her, the marshal started toward the
roadster.

“Just—a—minute,” Nancy Drew stammered as she darted toward the
roadster, blocking the marshal’s path. “There’s a package in the seat.
I’ll put it in the back.”

Hastily, she picked up the clock which was covered with a blanket.

“Never mind that,” the marshal interposed. “I can hold it.”

“Oh, it’s no trouble to put it in the catch-all at the back,” Nancy
assured him. “Then it will be out of your way.”

Before the man could offer to do it for her, she had carried the clock
to the rear of the car. Lifting the cover, she placed it on the floor.

During the ride back to town Nancy Drew was anything but easy in her
mind, but she gave no indication that she was nervous. It was not until
she had said good-bye to the marshal at the jail that she felt entirely
safe.

“That was a narrow escape,” she laughed, as she drove away. “It might
not have gone so well with me if the marshal had discovered stolen goods
in my car. It certainly wouldn’t have been easy to explain how I came by
that clock.”

Although it was late, Nancy was determined to return to River Heights
that night. She was anxious to examine the notebook and learn whether or
not it would disclose the hiding place of Josiah Crowley’s second will.

“Oh, I’m so eager to get home and have a chance to dig into the
notebook!” she thought as she drove along the road. “I went through a
lot to get it and I’ll be disappointed if it doesn’t contain good news.
It will mean so much to the Horner girls and poor old Abigail if the
will is found.”

It was nearly ten o’clock that night when Nancy, tired and worn from the
long automobile ride, reached her home in River Heights. As she drove
into the double garage, she noticed that her father’s car was gone. A
glance at the house disclosed that the windows were dark.

“I wonder where father can be?” she questioned herself. “I wanted to
tell him about my discovery right away.”

She removed the Crowley clock from the back of the roadster and paused
an instant to gloat over it. She was well satisfied with the result of
her detective work.

Locking the garage door, she went inside and switched on the electric
light. The house seemed deserted, for Hannah, the maid, had already
retired.

“Father is probably working late at the office,” Nancy decided. “Oh,
well, I may as well stay up. And while I’m waiting I’ll have a look at
the notebook!”

During the long ride from Moon Lake she had been impatient for an
opportunity to examine the Crowley notebook, and now she lost no time in
finding a screwdriver. She took off the face of the clock, and from the
hook removed the notebook.

“Now to find what became of the will,” she declared, as she curled up in
a comfortable chair near a reading lamp. “Oh, I hope everything turns
out right for Allie and Grace and for Abigail Rowen!”

Carefully, Nancy thumbed over the pages for they were yellowed with age
and she was afraid they might tear. Evidently, Josiah Crowley had used
the same notebook for many years.

Page after page the girl read, perusing inconsequential memoranda and
numerous notations of property owned by Josiah Crowley, as well as
various business transactions made by him. Nancy was surprised at the
list of stocks, bonds, and notes which apparently belonged to the
estate. The amount reached well over three hundred thousand dollars.

“I had no idea Josiah Crowley had that much money,” she murmured.

After a time she grew impatient of the seemingly endless list, and
skipping many pages, turned ahead.

Suddenly, the phrase, “my will,” caught and held her attention. Eagerly,
Nancy pounced upon it and began to read.

“I’ve found it at last!” she told herself in excitement.

The notation was brief and written in Josiah Crowley’s cramped hand.

    “To whom it may concern: My last will and testament will be
    found in safety deposit box number 148 in the Masonville
    National Bank. The box is under the name of Josiah Harkston.”

The date of this entry was recent and the ink had not faded as in the
earlier entries in the notebook.

“Then there was another will!” Nancy exclaimed aloud. “Oh, I’m sure it
must be in favor of the Horner girls, too!”

She hurriedly read on, but although she carefully examined every page in
the book, there was no other mention of the will.

“No wonder the will never came to light,” Nancy mused. “Who would have
ever thought of looking for it in a safety deposit box under the name of
Josiah Harkston? In his zest for safety, Josiah Crowley nearly defeated
his own purpose.”

Her thoughts were interrupted as she heard an automobile turning in at
the drive. Rushing to the window, Nancy saw her father drive into the
garage. As he opened the front door she ran to meet him.

“Why, hello, Nancy,” he greeted her in surprise. “If I had known you
were here, I’d have come home sooner. I was doing some special work on a
case. Back from Moon Lake early, aren’t you?”

“Yes,” Nancy admitted, trying to hide her excitement. “But for a good
reason.”

Before her father could remove his hat, she plunged into the story of
her adventures and ended by showing him the notebook which she had found
inside the mantel clock. When she had finished, Carson Drew stared at
her with mingled pride and amusement.

“You’re a regular detective, Nancy.”

“You’re making fun of me.”

Carson Drew’s face sobered.

“No, I’m proud of what you’ve done, Nancy. I couldn’t have done better
myself—perhaps not so well. You took a real risk when you encountered
those robbers, but so long as you are back home safe and sound, it
doesn’t matter.”

“The Tophams aren’t going to thank me when they find out what I have
done.”

“Hardly. They may accuse you of stealing their clock, although so long
as their house was open when you entered they can’t claim that you broke
in. However, if we can manage to keep the knowledge from them, it will
be just as well that they don’t learn the details of how the will was
found.”

Carson Drew picked up the notebook and glanced through it with interest.

“The fortune will make a nice nest egg for someone,” he commented, as he
looked over the lists of stocks and bonds owned by Crowley. “These
securities are of the best, too. All gilt edge.”

“I hope the Tophams will be cut off without a cent,” Nancy declared.

“It’s likely they will be; but of course you never can be certain until
the will is read. Unless I am mistaken, your discovery will strike the
Tophams at an especially awkward time.”

“What do you mean?”

“Well, there’s a rumor going the rounds to the effect that Richard
Topham has been losing heavily in the stock market this last month. He
has been getting credit at a number of the banks on the strength of the
inheritance, and I suspect he is depending on Crowley’s money to pull
him through a tight place. At least he has made every effort to speed up
the settlement of the estate.”

“It would serve the Tophams right if they lose everything,” Nancy said
decisively. “They never had a particle of charity for anyone. They would
let their relatives starve before they would help them.”

Carson Drew glanced again at the notebook in his hand.

“Now that you have found this, the thing to do is locate the will at
once before Richard Topham gets wind of what is up,” he advised. “We
want to administer the _coup de grâce_ before the Tophams have a chance
to get the fortune into their hands. Once the estate is settled, it will
not be easy to wrest it away from them.”

“I’d like to turn the matter over to you,” Nancy responded promptly,
“I’m not familiar with legal procedure and you know exactly what should
be done.”

“I’ll be glad to help you if I can, Nancy. The first thing of course is
to get our hands on the will.”

“That should be easy. We can drive over to the Masonville National Bank
the first thing in the morning.”

“Yes, but we haven’t authority to open the safety deposit box. It may be
necessary to get a court order,” Carson Drew reminded his daughter.

“That’s so. I hadn’t thought of that. But you can manage it, can’t you?”

Carson Drew chuckled.

“Well, I know the judge. Yes, I think I can arrange it all right. I’ll
tell him I am acting as counsel for the Horner girls. I really am,
because I promised I’d help them if I could.”

“I’m sure everything is going to turn out just as I hoped!” Nancy cried
enthusiastically. “The deserving relatives will get the money and the
Tophams will be left out in the cold! Abigail Rowen will be able to have
the medical attention she needs, and Allie and Grace will be fixed for
life!”

“Don’t build your hopes too high,” Carson Drew advised her wisely.
“There may be a slip, you know. We may fail to find the will in the
deposit box, and of course there is a chance that Josiah Crowley didn’t
dispose of the fortune as it was expected that he would. If I were you I
wouldn’t say anything to the Horner girls until we are certain.”

“I won’t,” Nancy promised, as she turned toward the stairs. “But I can’t
help hoping. I’m going to bed now and get a good night’s rest. Then
to-morrow we’ll start off on the big adventure! Oh, I can scarcely wait
to find out what the will contains!”

Half way up the stairs, she hesitated and then returned to the living
room and picked up the notebook which rested on the table.

“After all I’ve gone through to get my hands on this, I’m not going to
take any chances!” she laughed. “To-night I’m going to sleep with it
under my pillow!”

When Nancy Drew awoke the following morning, the bright sunlight was
streaming in at her open bedroom window. As her eyes turned toward the
little clock on her dresser, she was alarmed to see that it was after
nine o’clock.

“How could I oversleep on a morning like this?” she asked herself.

Quickly running her hand under the pillow, she brought out the Crowley
notebook and surveyed it with satisfaction.

“Oh, what a surprise the Tophams are going to get!” she chuckled softly.

Hastily dressing, Nancy hurried downstairs. She found that her father
had already left for the office.

“Oh, dear,” she thought. “I wonder if he forgot?”

At that moment Hannah appeared from the kitchen bearing a plate of
crisp, steaming waffles.

“Your father said I was to tell you to go to his office just as soon as
you finish your breakfast,” she informed Nancy. “He said you were to
bring your notebook.”

“My notebook— Oh, yes, I know what he meant! It won’t take long to eat
breakfast,” she predicted, as she seated herself at the table.

After a hasty meal, she climbed into the roadster and drove to her
father’s office. She found him alone in the inner office.

“I’m sorry I overslept this morning,” Nancy apologized. “Have I kept you
waiting?”

“Not at all,” her father assured her pleasantly. “I told Hannah not to
awaken you because I knew you needed rest after your hard day yesterday.
And, anyway, we couldn’t do anything about the will without an order
from the court.”

“Did you get it?”

“Yes, I saw the judge early this morning. After explaining everything to
him he gave me the paper. I have it here.” Carson Drew tapped an inside
pocket.

“I brought the notebook with me. You wanted it, didn’t you?”

“Yes, I thought it might be necessary to show it to the judge, but we
won’t need it now. However, it may be well to put it in the safe. I’ll
do it now.”

Carson Drew took the notebook from Nancy and after placing it inside a
small safe closed and locked the door.

“When shall we start for Masonville?” Nancy asked somewhat impatiently.

“Right now if you are ready.”

After leaving a number of instructions with his private secretary,
Carson Drew followed his daughter from the office. He took his place
beside her in the roadster.

“I’ll never get over it if we don’t find the will,” she declared, as
they drove along. A flush of excitement had tinted her cheeks and her
eyes were bright.

“You must remember one thing, Nancy,” returned her father calmly.
“Crowley was a queer character and did things in a queer way. So the
will may be there, and again it may not be. Perhaps he left only further
directions in a box. I remember one case in Canada many years ago. An
eccentric Frenchman died and he left directions to look in a trunk of
old clothes. In the pocket of a coat were found further directions to
look in a closet of his home. There his family found directions to look
in a copper boiler. The boiler had disappeared and was finally located
in a curiosity shop. Inside, on the bottom, was pasted what proved to be
a word puzzle. The old Frenchman’s heirs were about to give up in
despair when a puzzler solved the puzzle and the man’s bag of gold was
found—under a board in his bedroom!”

“Oh, but they found it, anyway,” breathed Nancy.

The trip to Masonville was quickly accomplished, and in a short time
Nancy stopped the roadster in front of the Masonville National Bank.

“You may as well come, too,” Carson Drew said, as Nancy hesitated.

Parking the car at the curbing, the two entered the bank. Mr. Drew
offered his professional card and asked to see the president. After a
few minutes’ wait, they were ushered into a private conference room. An
elderly man arose to greet them.

The introductions accomplished, Mr. Drew hastened to state his mission.
Before he could finish the story, the bank president cut him short.

“I am afraid you have come to the wrong place. To my knowledge we have
never had dealings with a man by the name of Josiah Crowley.”

“Perhaps you did not know him by that name. I believe he had a deposit
box here under the name of Josiah Harkston.”

“Josiah Harkston?” the banker repeated thoughtfully. “It seems to me we
have been trying to get in touch with a man by that name. If I remember
correctly the rent on his safety deposit box has not been paid for some
time. If you will wait a moment I will find out.”

The banker left the room. He returned in a few minutes with a sheet of
paper in his hand.

“According to our record a Josiah Harkston rented box 148 from us, but
the past year the rent has not been paid. Here is his signature if you
care to look at it.”

Eagerly Nancy and her father examined the sheet of paper which the
banker handed them. At a glance they saw that the writing was in the
cramped hand of Josiah Crowley.

“It may be that Crowley and Harkston were the same person, as you say,”
the banker continued. “But we have no authority to permit you to examine
the contents of the safety deposit box.”

“I have an order from the court,” Mr. Drew said quietly.

“Oh, that is different.” The banker’s attitude underwent a sudden
change. “May I see the document please?”

“Certainly.”

Mr. Drew removed the paper from his pocket and handed it to the banker.
After examining it for a minute, the president returned it.

“You find it satisfactory?” Mr. Drew asked.

“Perfectly. You are welcome to open the safety deposit box—of course in
the presence of a bank official. I suppose you have the key?”

Nancy’s face fell. She had never once thought of the key.

“We have no key,” Mr. Drew admitted. “Isn’t there one in the bank which
will fit the box?” He knew some small banks had this.

“No, we did away with that when we got our regular vault,” said the
banker. “But—wait a minute,” he added suddenly. “I think I can help you
out.”

He disappeared into another part of the bank and presently came back
holding up a sealed envelope.

“That man had two keys for his box and he left one here in my
possession, sealed up as you can see. As you have a court order I feel
you are entitled to this key,” and he handed the envelope to Mr. Drew.

The envelope was marked with Josiah Crowley’s assumed name, also the
number of his box. It contained a small, flat key, nothing more.

“Now we will go to the boxes,” said the bank official.

Nancy and her father followed the president into the main part of the
bank. They were then admitted into a small room which was protected by
heavily barred doors. Finally, they entered the vault which contained
the safety deposit boxes.

The president inserted a small key in a lock, then used the key given to
Mr. Drew and finally pulled out a metal box which bore the number 148.
Politely, he handed the box to Mr. Drew, who quickly lifted the lid and
peered inside. Unable to resist the temptation, Nancy peeped over her
father’s shoulder.

The box was empty save for one document in the bottom.

“Oh, it must be the will!” Nancy cried before Mr. Drew could examine the
paper.

“It is the will,” her father announced, after a hasty glance at the
document.

“A will, eh?” said the bank official, with keen interest.

“Yes, and I will ask you to do me a favor. Kindly place your initials on
each page—so you can later on identify it if necessary—and I will do
the same.”

“Certainly, Mr. Drew. I’ve done that before.”

Mr. Drew thanked the president for the help he had given, and with Nancy
left the bank. Once they had gained the comparative privacy of the
roadster, they grinned at each other like two mischievous youngsters.

“Well, we put it over, eh, Nancy?”

“We certainly did. But read the will! I’m dying to find out what it
says. I can’t stand the suspense another minute!”

The will comprised several pages, all written in Josiah Crowley’s
cramped style. Mr. Drew spread the pages out before him, and Nancy pored
over them. Not only was the fine writing difficult to make out, but the
legal terms were confusing.

“It’s going to be a terrible task to study it all out,” Nancy
complained.

“Yes, I think we had better take it to the office,” Mr. Drew suggested.
He picked up the last page of the will and studied it closely. “I see
Doctor Nesbitt signed as a witness. No wonder the will never came to
light. If you remember, he died a few days after Crowley. Thomas
Wackley, the other witness, I never heard of.”

“Oh, I don’t care who witnessed the will,” Nancy said impatiently. “I
want to find out if Allie and Grace and poor Abigail got anything. I
can’t make head nor tail out of it.”

“I see their names are mentioned,” Mr. Drew told her, pointing to one of
the pages.

“Oh, I’m so glad! So long as I know they’re taken care of I suppose I
can wait until we get to your office to find out the details. We can
have the will copied in typewriting.”

“Yes, I want to go over the document carefully. It is evident that
Crowley drew it up himself, and I want to make certain it is legal.”

“Oh, do you think there is any danger it won’t be?” Nancy questioned
anxiously.

“I can’t tell until I go over it in detail, Nancy. But from a hasty
examination it appears that the Tophams aren’t mentioned, and they are
certain to make trouble if they can. I want to make sure there is no way
for them to break the will before I notify them we have it in our
possession.”

Mr. Drew folded the papers and placed them carefully in his pocket. As
Nancy started the motor in preparation for the return trip to River
Heights she began to chuckle.

“If the will does prove to be legal, won’t it be a blow for the Tophams?
I’d give a lot to see how they take it. I think it would be a splendid
idea to call a meeting of all the relatives and read the will aloud!”

“I’m afraid you have a dark motive behind that idea,” Mr. Drew laughed.
“But I’ll try to humor you this time. What’s more, I’ll promise that you
may be present when the _coup de grâce_ is administered to the Tophams!”

“Oh, father, it’s nearly two o’clock now. The relatives should be coming
in a few minutes! I’m so excited!”

Carson Drew, who stood in the living room of the Drew home smiled
indulgently at his daughter as she fluttered about, arranging chairs.

“I believe you’re more thrilled than if you were inheriting the fortune
yourself,” he remarked.

“I am thrilled,” Nancy admitted. “I can scarcely wait until the will is
read aloud. Won’t everyone be surprised? Especially the Tophams. Do you
think they will come?”

“Oh, yes, the Tophams will be here. And, unless I am mistaken, they will
bring a lawyer with them. Just as soon as they learned that another will
had come to light, they began to worry.”

“Are you certain the will can’t be broken?” Nancy inquired anxiously.

“Of course I can’t be certain, Nancy. But I have gone over it carefully,
and so far as I can tell it is technically perfect. Josiah Crowley was
peculiar in some ways, but he was no one’s fool. I’ll promise you the
Tophams will have a difficult time of it if they try to break the will.”

After locating the Crowley will in a safety deposit box at the
Masonville National Bank in the town of Masonville, Carson Drew and his
daughter had read it carefully. Without disclosing the contents to
anyone, they had called a special meeting of the relatives at the Drew
home.

With the exception of Abigail Rowen, who was confined to her bed, all
had promised to be present. Grace and Allie Horner, although not
relatives, had also been invited to attend the meeting.

“It’s too bad Abigail Rowan can’t come,” said Nancy. “But we’ll get the
news to her fast enough.”

“It will probably be a great surprise all around,” said her father, with
a little smile. “Nancy, you have done a remarkable piece of work.”

“Oh, I can hardly wait to have it all cleared up,” cried the happy girl.

“We may have some hard minutes with the Tophams, Nancy.”

“Yes, I suppose so. I suppose anybody would be sorry to see a fortune
slipping away.”

“Well, we’ll see what happens,” returned the lawyer.

“The Horner girls are coming up the walk now,” Nancy announced, glancing
out of the window. “I’m dying to tell them the news, but I’ll wait.”

She greeted Allie and Grace cordially and escorted them to comfortable
chairs in the living room.

“Is it true the will has been found?” Allie whispered.

“You and Grace have no cause to worry,” Nancy assured her, with a
mysterious smile.

No sooner had she seated the Horner sisters than the doorbell rang
again. This time she admitted Edna and Matilda Turner, who were dressed
in their best black silk gowns. A few minutes later, the Mathews
brothers, William and Fred, arrived.

“I guess everyone is here now except the Tophams,” Carson Drew
commented. “We had better wait for them a few minutes.”

There was no need to wait, for at that moment the doorbell jangled
sharply. Nancy opened the door and the four members of the Topham family
sailed grandly in. As Carson Drew had predicted, they were accompanied
by a lawyer.

“Why have we been called here?” Mrs. Topham demanded, addressing Mr.
Drew. “Have you the audacity to claim that another will has been found?”

“I have the will here, Mrs. Topham,” Carson Drew replied politely.

“It’s preposterous!” Mrs. Topham stormed. “Josiah Crowley made only one
will and in that he left everything to us!”

“It looks like a conspiracy to me,” Ada added tartly, as she gazed
coldly upon the relatives who were seated about the room.

Isabel did not speak, but tossed her head contemptuously. Richard Topham
likewise did not offer a comment, but uneasily seated himself beside the
lawyer who had accompanied him.

“If you will kindly be seated, Mrs. Topham, we will read the will,” Mr.
Drew suggested.

Reluctantly, Mrs. Topham obeyed.

“As you have probably learned by this time,” Mr. Drew began, “a second
will of the late Josiah Crowley has been found in a safety deposit box
in a Masonville bank. The will is unusually long, and with your
permission I will read only the portions which have to do with the
disposal of the property.”

Mr. Drew picked up several sheets of typewriting from the table, and
after a moment’s hesitation began to read in a clear voice:

“‘I, Josiah Crowley, do make this my last will and testament, hereby
revoking all former wills by me at any time made. I give and bequeath
all my property, real and personal, as follows:

“‘To my beloved friends and neighbors, Allie and Grace Horner, the sum
of seventy-five thousand dollars each.’”

“Oh, I can’t believe it!” Allie gasped.

“Neither can I!” Mrs. Topham snapped. “One hundred and fifty thousand
dollars when they aren’t even relatives. Why, that’s nearly half of the
estate. The will is a fraud!”

“There is no mistake,” Mr. Drew told her quietly. Again he picked up the
will and began to read:

“‘To Abigail Rowen, in consideration of her kindness to me, the sum of
seventy-five thousand dollars.’”

“Oh, I’m so glad,” Grace murmured.

“Now, she’ll be able to get the medical attention she needs,” Allie
added.

“I wish she could have been here,” Nancy said quietly. “But I’ll see to
it that she is notified before the day is over.”

“That old lady gets seventy-five thousand dollars?” Ada Topham demanded
harshly. “What did she ever do for Crowley?” Angrily, she turned to her
mother. “We kept him for years. And this is the pay we get!”

“‘To my nephews, Fred and William Mathews, the sum of twenty thousand
dollars each,’” Mr. Drew read.

“We didn’t expect that much,” the Mathews brothers declared, in genuine
surprise.

“‘To my cousins, Edna and Matilda Turner, the sum of twenty thousand
dollars each.’”

“Oh, how generous!” Edna murmured.

“Aren’t we mentioned at all?” Mrs. Topham broke in sharply.

Mr. Drew smiled.

“Yes, you are mentioned, but perhaps not in the way you anticipate. I’m
coming to that now.

“‘To Grace and Allie Horner, my household furniture now in the
possession of Mrs. Richard Topham.’”

There was a gasp of surprise from everyone in the room, and Mrs. Topham
half-arose from her chair. It was generally known about River Heights
that the Tophams had practically confiscated Josiah Crowley’s furniture
at the time they induced him to make his home with them.

“How insulting!” Mrs. Topham cried. “Does Josiah Crowley dare hint that
I took his furniture?”

“I’m sure I don’t know what was in his mind at the time he wrote the
will,” Carson Drew told her, with a smile.

“Oh, we have enough without the furniture,” Grace interposed quickly.
“Haven’t we, Allie?”

Allie nodded.

“We’ll not take the household goods from you, Mrs. Topham.”

Carson Drew carefully folded the document he had been reading, and after
placing it in a drawer, turned to the relatives.

“That is all there is except that there is a proviso to pay all his just
debts, including his funeral expenses and that what little balance is
left—maybe three or four thousand dollars—goes to the Manningham Old
Men’s Home. Fortunately, Josiah Crowley kept his assets in a liquid
state. It will not be difficult to convert the estate into cash. For
that reason I should think it would be possible to draw on your
inheritances at once.”

“We’re actually cut off without a cent?” Richard Topham asked in
disbelief. His face was unusually white.

“I am afraid you are,” Mr. Drew replied.

“But it can’t be,” Mr. Topham returned. “You don’t understand. I must
have the money!”

“I can’t help you. I did not make the will.”

“It’s a conspiracy!” Ada cried bitterly. She wheeled upon Nancy, her
face convulsed with anger. “You had something to do with this, Nancy
Drew,” she said bitterly.

“Perhaps I had,” Nancy admitted pleasantly.

“We’ll break the will!” Mrs. Topham announced firmly.

“Of course you may drag the matter into court if you like,” Mr. Drew
responded. “But I warn you it will be only a waste of your time and
money. If you don’t wish to accept my judgment, ask your own lawyer.”

“Mr. Drew is right,” the lawyer said promptly, without waiting for Mrs.
Topham to question him.

“Oh, he is, is he?” Mrs. Topham retorted. “If that’s all you know about
law, you’re discharged! We’ll get another lawyer and we’ll fight to the
last ditch!”

With that she arose and stalked grandly from the room. Isabel and Ada
followed, after bestowing a withering glance upon Nancy. Mr. Topham
brought up the rear. As soon as the door had closed behind them, their
lawyer arose and picked up his brief case.

“Well, I can’t say I’m sorry to lose the case,” he remarked to Mr. Drew,
as he, too, took his leave.

At once the atmosphere became less strained. Everyone began to talk at
once.

“Oh, Nancy, I can hardly believe it yet!” Allie declared happily. “The
money means so much to Grace and me! And we owe it all to you, Nancy
Drew! You haven’t told us how you came to find the will, but I know you
were responsible.”

As the Horner girls and Mr. Crowley’s relatives begged her for the
details, Nancy Drew told of her adventure with the robbers at Moon Lake.
When she had finished the story, they praised her highly for what she
had done.

“We’ll never be able to thank you enough,” Grace said quietly. “But
after the estate has been settled, we’ll try to show our appreciation.”

It was on the tip of Nancy’s tongue to say that she did not want a
reward when Mr. Drew turned the conversation into a different channel.

“The Tophams will not give up the money without a fight,” he said. “My
advice would be to ask the court to appoint an administrator at once.”

“We all want you, I’m sure,” Grace Horner declared quickly. She regarded
the others questioningly.

Everyone nodded assent.

“And of course we want you to act as our lawyer,” Grace added.

“I’ll be glad to assist you,” Mr. Drew promised. “If the Tophams bring
the matter into court, I’ll give them a battle they’ll never forget!”

After thanking Mr. Drew and Nancy for what they had done, the relatives
at last took their departure. Allie and Grace were the last to leave. As
they turned to say good-bye to Nancy, Carson Drew opened a closet and
took out the Crowley clock.

“I guess this belongs to you now,” he remarked, handing the clock to
Allie. “It was included in Crowley’s household goods.”

“I don’t know what we’ll do with it,” Allie laughed.

Presently, the Horner girls departed with the clock. On the porch they
paused to whisper significantly to Nancy:

“You’ll hear from us again.”

After everyone had left the house, Mr. Drew turned to his daughter with
a smile.

“Well, we administered the _coup de grâce_ to the Tophams all right.”

“Yes, wasn’t it funny to watch their faces when they learned they were
cut off without a cent?”

“They took it hard. It’s my opinion the Tophams won’t be able to hold
their heads so high after this. Richard Topham looked rather sick when
he left. I suspect he’s desperately in need of ready cash.”

“The Tophams deserved to be cut off without a cent,” Nancy Drew
declared. “I’m so glad everything came out right and that Allie and
Grace received the bulk of the fortune.”

“Yes, they are charming girls. Unless I am mistaken they intend to
reward you for what you did, Nancy.”

“It wouldn’t surprise me. But of course I’ll not take money from them.
However, if they should offer me a reward, I know what I shall ask for!”

“What is that?”

“Oh, you must wait and see,” and Nancy laughed mysteriously. “They
haven’t offered me anything yet.”

Before Carson Drew could quiz her, she skipped out the side door and
vanished.

“I suppose you’ve heard about the Tophams,” Carson Drew remarked to his
daughter, one morning some months after the reading of the Crowley will.

“Why, no, what about them?”

“They’re practically in bankruptcy. Richard Topham has been losing
steadily on the stock market of late. After his failure to recover the
Crowley fortune, the banks reduced his credit. He’s been forced to give
up his home on the avenue.”

“No, really? How that must hurt Mrs. Topham and the two girls.”

“Yes, it’s undoubtedly a bitter pill to swallow. They are moving into a
small house this week, and from now on they’ll not be able to carry
themselves so high.”

“I hope they don’t try to make any more trouble about the will,” Nancy
commented. “Goodness knows, they’ve made enough already.”

The Tophams had not given up the Crowley estate without a bitter battle.
They had put forth the claim that the will Nancy had unearthed was a
forged document, but they had been unable to prove their statement. The
case had finally been thrown out of court.

As administrator of the estate, Carson Drew had advanced the Horner
girls and Abigail Rowen a portion of their inheritance. Several weeks
before, Nancy had visited Abigail and was delighted to find her in
surprisingly good health. She had secured medical attention, and a
trained nurse was in constant attendance.

“I believe I’ll run out into the country to-day and visit the Horner
girls,” Nancy told her father. “They telephoned yesterday and asked me
to come. They hinted they had something special to tell me.”

“Perhaps they’re going to reward you for finding the will,” Mr. Drew
suggested.

“Oh, it’s been nearly a month since they said anything about it,” Nancy
returned carelessly. “By this time they’ve probably forgotten all about
it.”

After luncheon, she set off for the farmhouse in her blue roadster. It
was a beautiful autumn and Nancy Drew thoroughly enjoyed the ride.

As she came within sight of the farmhouse, Nancy was astonished at the
transformation which had taken place. The house had been given a fresh
coat of white paint and a bright green roof replaced the old one. The
yard was well kept and beds of hardy plants had been set out.

In the barnyard, many new hen houses were going up. Perhaps the most
surprising thing was the large number of chickens in evidence.

“Welcome to the chicken farm!” Allie Horner cried enthusiastically, as
she ran from the house to greet Nancy.

“I never saw so many chickens in all my life,” Nancy declared.

“All Leghorns too,” Allie told her proudly.

By this time Grace Horner had reached the roadster and she too gave
Nancy a hearty welcome.

“Allie is in her element these days,” she laughed. “She’s putting in
incubators, and from now on will raise nothing but high-grade fowls.”

“You must see everything!” Allie insisted.

Nancy was piloted from one place to another. She saw the new chicken
houses which were being built and the incubators. But the thing which
pleased her the most was the realization that Allie and Grace were happy
in their work.

“Well, I must be getting back to River Heights,” she remarked after a
time.

“Oh, you can’t go yet!” Allie interposed with a quick glance at her
sister. “You tell her, Grace.”

“We asked you here to-day for a special reason,” Grace began a trifle
awkwardly. “You see, we’ve been thinking for a long time that we’ve
never done a thing to show our appreciation for what you did. We’ve
talked with the others and everyone is agreed that we should reward——”

“Oh, I don’t want a reward,” Nancy broke in. “I wanted to help. And,
anyway, it was fun for me.”

“But we wanted to do something really handsome,” Allie cried in
disappointment. “It doesn’t seem fair not to give you a reward.”

“There’s one way you can reward me if you really want to,” Nancy said
after a little hesitation.

“How?” Allie and Grace demanded in one breath.

“Well, it may sound silly, but I would like to have the Crowley clock
for my very own.”

“And is that all you want?” Grace questioned in disappointment. “We’ll
be glad to give you a hundred clocks if you will only take them.”

“Just the old Crowley clock—that’s all I care for. And if you
particularly want it yourself——”

“Oh, goodness, no,” Grace assured her quickly. “It doesn’t keep
particularly good time and we have more heirlooms now than we know what
to do with. Wait a minute and I’ll get it for you.”

She disappeared inside the farmhouse, returning in a few minutes with
the old-fashioned timepiece. She handed it to Nancy.

“You’re more than welcome to it,” she declared warmly, “but it isn’t a
reward at all.”

“It’s the only reward I want,” Nancy replied, smiling at the two Horner
girls.

“I don’t see what you want with the thing,” Allie commented. “It’s not
much to look at.”

Nancy did not reply at once, but gazed meditatively at the clock. Truly,
it was not handsome; but for her it had a peculiar appeal. She could not
explain to Allie and Grace just why she prized it, for her feeling was
something she could not put into words. Certainly she was attached to it
because of its suggestion of her recent adventure.

“I wonder if I’ll ever have another half so thrilling?” Nancy thought.

As she stood gazing wistfully at the old clock she could not know that
before many months had passed, she would be involved in a mystery far
more baffling than the one she had just solved. Her adventures,
recounted in the next volume of this series, “The Hidden Staircase,”
were before her. Nancy Drew did not have the power of projecting herself
into the future, and yet as she looked down at the timepiece, she seemed
to know that exciting days were soon to come.

“I’ll always prize this clock as a trophy of my first venture as a
detective,” she said quietly, turning to Allie and Grace. “It will serve
as a pleasant reminder of a thrilling adventure—and, who knows? perhaps
as a promise for the future!”


Nancy Drew began peeling off her garden gloves as she ran up the porch
steps and into the hall to answer the ringing telephone. She picked it
up and said, “Hello!”

“Hi, Nancy! This is Helen.” Although Helen Corning was nearly three
years older than Nancy, the two girls were close friends.

“Are you tied up on a case?” Helen asked.

“No. What’s up? A mystery?”

“Yes—a haunted house.”

Nancy sat down on the chair by the telephone. “Tell me more!” the
eighteen-year-old detective begged excitedly.

“You’ve heard me speak of my Aunt Rosemary,” Helen began. “Since
becoming a widow, she has lived with her mother at Twin Elms, the old
family mansion out in Cliffwood. Well, I went to see them yesterday.
They said that many strange, mysterious things have been happening there
recently. I told them how good you are at solving mysteries, and they’d
like you to come out to Twin Elms and help them.” Helen paused, out of
breath.

“It certainly sounds intriguing,” Nancy replied, her eyes dancing.

“If you’re not busy, Aunt Rosemary and I would like to come over in
about an hour and talk to you about the ghost.”

“I can’t wait.”

After Nancy had put down the phone, she sat lost in thought for several
minutes. Since solving _The Secret of the Old Clock_, she had longed for
another case. Here was her chance!

Attractive, blond-haired Nancy was brought out of her daydreaming by the
sound of the doorbell. At the same moment the Drews’ housekeeper, Hannah
Gruen, came down the front stairs.

“I’ll answer it,” she offered.

Mrs. Gruen had lived with the Drews since Nancy was three years old. At
that time Mrs. Drew had passed away and Hannah had become like a second
mother to Nancy. There was a deep affection between the two, and Nancy
confided all her secrets to the understanding housekeeper.

Mrs. Gruen opened the door and instantly a man stepped into the hall. He
was short, thin, and rather stooped. Nancy guessed his age to be about
forty.

“Is Mr. Drew at home?” he asked brusquely. “My name is Gomber—Nathan
Gomber.”

“No, he’s not here just now,” the housekeeper replied.

The caller looked over Hannah Gruen’s shoulder and stared at Nancy. “Are
you Nancy Drew?”

“Yes, I am. Is there anything I can do for you?”

The man’s shifty gaze moved from Nancy to Hannah. “I’ve come out of the
goodness of my heart to warn you and your father,” he said pompously.

“Warn us? About what?” Nancy asked quickly.

Nathan Gomber straightened up importantly and said, “Your father is in
great danger, Miss Drew!”

Both Nancy and Hannah Gruen gasped. “You mean this very minute?” the
housekeeper questioned.

“All the time,” was the startling answer. “I understand you’re a pretty
bright girl, Miss Drew—that you even solve mysteries. Well, right now I
advise you to stick close to your father. Don’t leave him for a minute.”

Hannah Gruen looked as if she were ready to collapse and suggested that
they all go into the living room, sit down, and talk the matter over.
When they were seated, Nancy asked Nathan Gomber to explain further.

“The story in a nutshell is this,” he began. “You know that your father
was brought in to do legal work for the railroad when it was buying
property for the new bridge here.”

As Nancy nodded, he continued, “Well, a lot of the folks who sold their
property think they were gypped.”

Nancy’s face reddened. “I understood from my father that everyone was
well paid.”

“That’s not true,” said Gomber. “Besides, the railroad is in a real mess
now. One of the property owners, whose deed and signature they claim to
have, says that he never signed the contract of sale.”

“What’s his name?” Nancy asked.

“Willie Wharton.”

Nancy had not heard her father mention this name. She asked Gomber to go
on with his story.

“I’m acting as agent for Willie Wharton and several of the land owners
who were his neighbors,” he said, “and they can make it pretty tough for
the railroad. Willie Wharton’s signature was never witnessed and the
attached certificate of acknowledgment was not notarized. That’s good
proof the signature was a forgery. Well, if the railroad thinks they’re
going to get away with this, they’re not!”

Nancy frowned. Such a procedure on the part of the property owners meant
trouble for her father! She said evenly, “But all Willie Wharton has to
do is swear before a notary that he did sign the contract of sale.”

Gomber chuckled. “It’s not that easy, Miss Drew. Willie Wharton is not
available. Some of us have a good idea where he is and we’ll produce him
at the right time. But that won’t be until the railroad promises to give
the sellers more money. Then he’ll sign. You see, Willie is a real kind
man and he wants to help his friends out whenever he can. Now he’s got a
chance.”

Nancy had taken an instant dislike to Gomber and now it was quadrupled.
She judged him to be the kind of person who stays within the boundaries
of the law but whose ethics are questionable. This was indeed a tough
problem for Mr. Drew!

“Who are the people who are apt to harm my father?” she asked.

“I’m not saying who they are,” Nathan Gomber retorted. “You don’t seem
very appreciative of my coming here to warn you. Fine kind of a daughter
you are. You don’t care what happens to your father!”

Annoyed by the man’s insolence, both Nancy and Mrs. Gruen angrily stood
up. The housekeeper, pointing toward the front door, said, “Good day,
Mr. Gomber!”

The caller shrugged as he too arose. “Have it your own way, but don’t
say I didn’t warn you!”

He walked to the front door, opened it, and as he went outside, closed
it with a tremendous bang.

“Well, of all the insulting people,” Hannah snorted.

Nancy nodded. “But that’s not the worst of it, Hannah darling. I think
there’s more to Gomber’s warning than he is telling. It seems to me to
imply a threat. And he almost has me convinced. Maybe I should stay
close to Dad until he and the other lawyers have straightened out this
railroad tangle.”

She said this would mean giving up a case she had been asked to take.
Hastily Nancy gave Hannah the highlights of her conversation with Helen
about the haunted mansion. “Helen and her aunt will be here in a little
while to tell us the whole story.”

“Oh, maybe things aren’t so serious for your father as that horrible man
made out,” Hannah said encouragingly. “If I were you I’d listen to the
details about the haunted house and then decide what you want to do
about the mystery.”

In a short time a sports car pulled into the winding, tree-shaded
driveway of the Drew home. The large brick house was set some distance
back from the street.

Helen was at the wheel and stopped just beyond the front entrance. She
helped her aunt from the car and they came up the steps together. Mrs.
Rosemary Hayes was tall and slender and had graying hair. Her face had a
gentle expression but she looked tired.

Helen introduced her aunt to Nancy and to Hannah and the group went into
the living room to sit down. Hannah offered to prepare tea and left the
room.

“Oh, Nancy,” said Helen, “I do hope you can take Aunt Rosemary and Miss
Flora’s case.” Quickly she explained that Miss Flora was her aunt’s
mother. “Aunt Rosemary is really my great-aunt and Miss Flora is my
great-grandmother. From the time she was a little girl everybody has
called her Miss Flora.”

“The name may seem odd to people the first time they hear it,” Mrs.
Hayes remarked, “but we’re all so used to it, we never think anything
about it.”

“Please tell me more about your house,” Nancy requested, smiling.

“Mother and I are almost nervous wrecks,” Mrs. Hayes replied. “I have
urged her to leave Twin Elms, but she won’t. You see, Mother has lived
there ever since she married my father, Everett Turnbull.”

Mrs. Hayes went on to say that all kinds of strange happenings had
occurred during the past couple of weeks. They had heard untraceable
music, thumps and creaking noises at night, and had seen eerie,
indescribable shadows on the walls.

“Have you notified the police?” Nancy asked.

“Oh, yes,” Mrs. Hayes answered. “But after talking with my mother, they
came to the conclusion that most of what she saw and heard could be
explained by natural causes. The rest, they said, probably was
imagination on her part. You see, she’s over eighty years old, and while
I know her mind is sound and alert, I’m afraid that the police don’t
think so.”

After a pause Mrs. Hayes went on, “I had almost talked myself into
thinking the ghostly noises could be attributed to natural causes, when
something else happened.”

“What was that?” Nancy questioned eagerly.

“We were robbed! During the night several pieces of old jewelry were
taken. I did telephone the police about this and they came to the house
for a description of the pieces. But they still would not admit that a
‘ghost’ visitor had taken them.”

Nancy was thoughtful for several seconds before making a comment. Then
she said, “Do the police have any idea who the thief might be?”

Aunt Rosemary shook her head. “No. And I’m afraid we might have more
burglaries.”

Many ideas were running through Nancy’s head. One was that the thief
apparently had no intention of harming anyone—that his only motive had
been burglary. Was he or was he not the person who was “haunting” the
house? Or could the strange happenings have some natural explanations,
as the police had suggested?

At this moment Hannah returned with a large silver tray on which was a
tea service and some dainty sandwiches. She set the tray on a table and
asked Nancy to pour the tea. She herself passed the cups of tea and
sandwiches to the callers.

As they ate, Helen said, “Aunt Rosemary hasn’t told you half the things
that have happened. Once Miss Flora thought she saw someone sliding out
of a fireplace at midnight, and another time a chair moved from one side
of the room to the other while her back was turned. But no one was
there!”

“How extraordinary!” Hannah Gruen exclaimed. “I’ve often read about such
things, but I never thought I’d meet anyone who lived in a haunted
house.”

Helen turned to Nancy and gazed pleadingly at her friend. “You see how
much you’re needed at Twin Elms? Won’t you please go out there with me
and solve the mystery of the ghost?”

Sipping their tea, Helen Corning and her aunt waited for Nancy’s
decision. The young sleuth was in a dilemma. She wanted to start at once
solving the mystery of the “ghost” of Twin Elms. But Nathan Gomber’s
warning still rang in her ears and she felt that her first duty was to
stay with her father.

At last she spoke. “Mrs. Hayes—” she began.

“Please call me Aunt Rosemary,” the caller requested. “All Helen’s
friends do.”

Nancy smiled. “I’d love to. Aunt Rosemary, may I please let you know
tonight or tomorrow? I really must speak to my father about the case.
And something else came up just this afternoon which may keep me at home
for a while at least.”

“I understand,” Mrs. Hayes answered, trying to conceal her
disappointment.

Helen Corning did not take Nancy’s announcement so calmly. “Oh, Nancy,
you just must come. I’m sure your dad would want you to help us. Can’t
you postpone the other thing until you get back?”

“I’m afraid not,” said Nancy. “I can’t tell you all the details, but Dad
has been threatened and I feel that I ought to stay close to him.”

Hannah Gruen added her fears. “Goodness only knows what they may do to
Mr. Drew,” she said. “Somebody could come up and hit him on the head, or
poison his food in a restaurant, or—”

Helen and her aunt gasped. “It’s that bad?” Helen asked, her eyes
growing wide.

Nancy explained that she would talk to her father when he returned home.
“I hate to disappoint you,” she said, “but you can see what a quandary
I’m in.”

“You poor girl!” said Mrs. Hayes sympathetically. “Now don’t you worry
about us.”

Nancy smiled. “I’ll worry whether I come or not,” she said. “Anyway,
I’ll talk to my dad tonight.”

The callers left shortly. When the door had closed behind them, Hannah
put an arm around Nancy’s shoulders. “I’m sure everything will come out
all right for everybody,” she said. “I’m sorry I talked about those
dreadful things that might happen to your father. I let my imagination
run away with me, just like they say Miss Flora’s does with her.”

“You’re a great comfort, Hannah dear,” said Nancy. “To tell the truth, I
have thought of all kinds of horrible things myself.” She began to pace
the floor. “I wish Dad would get home.”

During the next hour she went to the window at least a dozen times,
hoping to see her father’s car coming up the street. It was not until
six o’clock that she heard the crunch of wheels on the driveway and saw
Mr. Drew’s sedan pull into the garage.

“He’s safe!” she cried to Hannah, who was testing potatoes that were
baking in the oven.

In a flash Nancy was out the back door and running to meet her father.
“Oh, Dad, I’m so glad to see you!” she exclaimed.

She gave him a tremendous hug and a resounding kiss. He responded
affectionately, but gave a little chuckle. “What have I done to rate
this extra bit of attention?” he teased. With a wink he added, “I know.
Your date for tonight is off and you want me to substitute.”

“No, Dad,” Nancy replied. “Of course my date’s not off. But I’m just
about to call it off.”

“Why?” Mr. Drew questioned. “Isn’t Dirk going to stay on your list?”

“It’s not that,” Nancy replied. “It’s because—because you’re in
terrible danger, Dad. I’ve been warned not to leave you.”

Instead of looking alarmed, the lawyer burst out laughing. “In terrible
danger of what? Are you going to make a raid on my wallet?”

“Dad, be serious! I really mean what I’m saying. Nathan Gomber was here
and told me that you’re in great danger and I’d better stay with you at
all times.”

The lawyer sobered at once. “That pest again!” he exclaimed. “There are
times when I’d like to thrash the man till he begged for mercy!”

Mr. Drew suggested that they postpone their discussion about Nathan
Gomber until dinner was over. Then he would tell his daughter the true
facts in the case. After they had finished dinner, Hannah insisted upon
tidying up alone while father and daughter talked.

“I will admit that there is a bit of a muddle about the railroad
bridge,” Mr. Drew began. “What happened was that the lawyer who went to
get Willie Wharton’s signature was very ill at the time. Unfortunately,
he failed to have the signature witnessed or have the attached
certificate of acknowledgment executed. The poor man passed away a few
hours later.”

“And the other railroad lawyers failed to notice that the signature
hadn’t been witnessed or the certificate notarized?” Nancy asked.

“Not right away. The matter did not come to light until the man’s widow
turned his brief case over to the railroad. The old deed to Wharton’s
property was there, so the lawyers assumed that the signature on the
contract was genuine. The contract for the railroad bridge was awarded
and work began. Suddenly Nathan Gomber appeared, saying he represented
Willie Wharton and others who had owned property which the railroad had
bought on either side of the Muskoka River.”

“I understood from Mr. Gomber,” said Nancy, “that Willie Wharton is
trying to get more money for his neighbors by holding out for a higher
price himself.”

“That’s the story. Personally, I think it’s a sharp deal on Gomber’s
part. The more people he can get money for, the higher his commission,”
Mr. Drew stated.

“What a mess!” Nancy exclaimed. “And what can be done?”

“To tell the truth, there is little anyone can do until Willie Wharton
is found. Gomber knows this, of course, and has probably advised Wharton
to stay in hiding until the railroad agrees to give everybody more
money.”

Nancy had been watching her father intently. Now she saw an expression
of eagerness come over his face. He leaned forward in his chair and
said, “But I think I’m about to outwit Mr. Nathan Gomber. I’ve had a tip
that Willie Wharton is in Chicago and I’m leaving Monday morning to find
out.”

Mr. Drew went on, “I believe that Wharton will say he did sign the
contract of sale which the railroad company has and will readily consent
to having the certificate of acknowledgment notarized. Then, of course,
the railroad won’t pay him or any of the other property owners another
cent.”

“But, Dad, you still haven’t convinced me you’re not in danger,” Nancy
reminded him.

“Nancy dear,” her father replied, “I feel that I am not in danger.
Gomber is nothing but a blowhard. I doubt that he or Willie Wharton or
any of the other property owners would resort to violence to keep me
from working on this case. He’s just trying to scare me into persuading
the railroad to accede to his demands.”

Nancy looked skeptical. “But don’t forget you’re about to go to Chicago
and produce the very man Gomber and those property owners don’t want
around here just now.”

“I know.” Mr. Drew nodded. “But I still doubt if anyone would use force
to keep me from going.” Laughingly the lawyer added, “So I won’t need
you as a bodyguard, Nancy.”

His daughter gave a sigh of resignation. “All right, Dad, you know
best.” She then proceeded to tell her father about the Twin Elms
mystery, which she had been asked to solve. “If you approve,” Nancy said
in conclusion, “I’d like to go over there with Helen.”

Mr. Drew had listened with great interest. Now, after a few moments of
thought, he smiled. “Go by all means, Nancy. I realize you’ve been
itching to work on a new case—and this sounds like a real challenge.
But please be careful.”

“Oh, I will, Dad!” Nancy promised, her face lighting up. “Thanks a
million.” She jumped from her chair, gave her father a kiss, then went
to phone Helen the good news. It was arranged that the girls would go to
Twin Elms on Monday morning.

Nancy returned to the living room, eager to discuss the mystery further.
Her father, however, glanced at his wrist watch. “Say, young lady, you’d
better go dress for that date of yours.” He winked. “I happen to know
that Dirk doesn’t like to be kept waiting.”

“Especially by any of my mysteries.” She laughed and hurried upstairs to
change into a dance dress.

Half an hour later Dirk Jackson arrived. Nancy and the red-haired,
former high-school tennis champion drove off to pick up another couple
and attend an amateur play and dance given by the local Little Theater
group.

Nancy thoroughly enjoyed herself and was sorry when the affair ended.
With the promise of another date as soon as she returned from Twin Elms,
Nancy said good night and waved from her doorway to the departing boy.
As she prepared for bed, she thought of the play, the excellent
orchestra, how lucky she was to have Dirk for a date, and what fun it
had all been. But then her thoughts turned to Helen Corning and her
relatives in the haunted house, Twin Elms.

“I can hardly wait for Monday to come,” she murmured to herself as she
fell asleep.

The following morning she and her father attended church together.
Hannah said she was going to a special service that afternoon and
therefore would stay at home during the morning.

“I’ll have a good dinner waiting for you,” she announced, as the Drews
left.

After the service was over, Mr. Drew said he would like to drive down to
the waterfront and see what progress had been made on the new bridge.
“The railroad is going ahead with construction on the far side of the
river,” he told Nancy.

“Is the Wharton property on this side?” Nancy asked.

“Yes. And I must get to the truth of this mixed-up situation, so that
work can be started on this side too.”

Mr. Drew wound among the many streets leading down to the Muskoka River,
then took the vehicular bridge across. He turned toward the construction
area and presently parked his car. As he and Nancy stepped from the
sedan, he looked ruefully at her pumps.

“It’s going to be rough walking down to the waterfront,” he said.
“Perhaps you had better wait here.”

“Oh, I’ll be all right,” Nancy assured him. “I’d like to see what’s
being done.”

Various pieces of large machinery stood about on the high ground—a
crane, a derrick, and hydraulic shovels. As the Drews walked toward the
river, they passed a large truck. It faced the river and stood at the
top of an incline just above two of the four enormous concrete piers
which had already been built.

“I suppose there will be matching piers on the opposite side,” Nancy
mused, as she and her father reached the riverbank. They paused in the
space between the two huge abutments. Mr. Drew glanced from side to side
as if he had heard something. Suddenly Nancy detected a noise behind
them.

Turning, she was horrified to see that the big truck was moving toward
them. No one was at the wheel and the great vehicle was gathering speed
at every moment.

“Dad!” she screamed.

[Illustration: The truck seemed to leap toward them]

In the brief second of warning, the truck almost seemed to leap toward
the water. Nancy and her father, hemmed in by the concrete piers, had no
way to escape being run down.

“Dive!” Mr. Drew ordered.

Without hesitation, he and Nancy made running flat dives into the water,
and with arms flailing and legs kicking, swam furiously out of harm’s
way.

The truck thundered into the water and sank immediately up to the cab.
The Drews turned and came back to the shore.

“Whew! That was a narrow escape!” the lawyer exclaimed, as he helped his
daughter retrieve her pumps which had come off in the oozy bank. “And
what sights we are!” Nancy remarked.

“Indeed we are,” her father agreed, as they trudged up the incline. “I’d
like to get hold of the workman who was careless enough to leave that
heavy truck on the slope without the brake on properly.”

Nancy was not so sure that the near accident was the fault of a careless
workman. Nathan Gomber had warned her that Mr. Drew’s life was in
danger. The threat might already have been put into action!

“We’d better get home in a hurry and change our clothes,” said Mr. Drew.
“And I’ll call the contracting company to tell them what happened.”

“And notify the police?” Nancy suggested.

She dropped behind her father and gazed over the surrounding ground for
telltale footprints. Presently she saw several at the edge of the spot
where the truck had stood.

“Dad!” the young sleuth called out. “I may have found a clue to explain
how that truck started downhill.”

Her father came back and looked at the footprints. They definitely had
not been made by a workman’s boots.

“You may think me an old worrier, Dad,” Nancy spoke up, “but these
footprints, made by a man’s business shoes, convince me that somebody
deliberately tried to injure us with that truck.”

The lawyer stared at his daughter. Then he looked down at the ground.
From the size of the shoe and the length of the stride one could easily
perceive that the wearer of the shoes was not tall. Nancy asked her
father if he thought one of the workmen on the project could be
responsible.

“I just can’t believe anyone associated with the contracting company
would want to injure us,” Mr. Drew said.

Nancy reminded her father of Nathan Gomber’s warning. “It might be one
of the property owners, or even Willie Wharton himself.”

“Wharton is short and has a small foot,” the lawyer conceded. “And I
must admit that these look like fresh footprints. As a matter of fact,
they show that whoever was here ran off in a hurry. He may have released
the brake on the truck, then jumped out and run away.”

“Yes,” said Nancy. “And that means the attack _was_ deliberate.”

Mr. Drew did not reply. He continued walking up the hill, lost in
thought. Nancy followed and they climbed into the car. They drove home
in silence, each puzzling over the strange incident of the runaway
truck. Upon reaching the house, they were greeted by a loud exclamation
of astonishment.

“My goodness!” Hannah Gruen cried out. “Whatever in the world happened
to you?”

They explained hastily, then hurried upstairs to bathe and change into
dry clothes. By the time they reached the first floor again, Hannah had
placed sherbet glasses filled with orange and grapefruit slices on the
table. All during the delicious dinner of spring lamb, rice and
mushrooms, fresh peas and chocolate angel cake with vanilla ice cream,
the conversation revolved around the railroad bridge mystery and then
the haunted Twin Elms mansion.

“I knew things wouldn’t be quiet around here for long,” Hannah Gruen
remarked with a smile. “Tomorrow you’ll both be off on big adventures. I
certainly wish you both success.”

“Thank you, Hannah,” said Nancy. She laughed. “I’d better get a good
night’s sleep. From now on I may be kept awake by ghosts and strange
noises.”

“I’m a little uneasy about your going to Twin Elms,” the housekeeper
told her. “Please promise me that you’ll be careful.”

“Of course,” Nancy replied. Turning to her father, she said, “Pretend
I’ve said the same thing to you about being careful.”

The lawyer chuckled and pounded his chest. “You know me. I can be pretty
tough when the need arises.”

Early the next morning Nancy drove her father to the airport in her blue
convertible. Just before she kissed him good-by at the turnstile, he
said, “I expect to return on Wednesday, Nancy. Suppose I stop off at
Cliffwood and see how you’re making out?”

“Wonderful, Dad! I’ll be looking for you.”

As soon as her father left, Nancy drove directly to Helen Corning’s
home. The pretty, brunette girl came from the front door of the white
cottage, swinging a suitcase. She tossed it into the rear of Nancy’s
convertible and climbed in.

“I ought to be scared,” said Helen. “Goodness only knows what’s ahead of
us. But right now I’m so happy nothing could upset me.”

“What happened?” Nancy asked as she started the car. “Did you inherit a
million?”

“Something better than that,” Helen replied. “Nancy, I want to tell you
a big, big secret. I’m going to be married!”

Nancy slowed the car and pulled to the side of the street. Leaning over
to hug her friend, she said, “Why, Helen, how wonderful! Who is he? And
tell me all about it. This is rather sudden, isn’t it?”

“Yes, it is,” Helen confessed. “His name is Jim Archer and he’s simply
out of this world. I’m a pretty lucky girl. I met him a couple of months
ago when he was home on a short vacation. He works for the Tristam Oil
Company and has spent two years abroad. Jim will be away a while longer,
and then be given a position here in the States.”

As Nancy started the car up once more, her eyes twinkled. “Helen
Corning, have you been engaged for two months and didn’t tell me?”

Helen shook her head. “Jim and I have been corresponding ever since he
left. Last night he telephoned from overseas and asked me to marry him.”
Helen giggled. “I said yes in a big hurry. Then he asked me to speak to
Dad. My father gave his consent but insisted that our engagement not be
announced until Jim’s return to this country.”

The two girls discussed all sorts of delightful plans for Helen’s
wedding and before they knew it they had reached the town of Cliffwood.

“My great-grandmother’s estate is about two miles out of town,” Helen
said. “Go down Main Street and turn right at the fork.”

Ten minutes later she pointed out Twin Elms. From the road one could see
little of the house. A high stone wall ran along the front of the estate
and beyond it were many tall trees. Nancy turned into the driveway which
twisted and wound among elms, oaks, and maples.

Presently the old Colonial home came into view. Helen said it had been
built in 1785 and had been given its name because of the two elm trees
which stood at opposite ends of the long building. They had grown to be
giants and their foliage was beautiful. The mansion of red brick and
nearly all the walls were covered with ivy. There was a ten-foot porch
with tall white pillars at the huge front door.

“It’s charming!” Nancy commented as she pulled up to the porch.

“Wait until you see the grounds,” said Helen. “There are several old,
old buildings. An icehouse, a smokehouse, a kitchen, and servants’
cottages.”

“The mansion certainly doesn’t look spooky from the outside,” Nancy
commented.

At that moment the great door opened and Aunt Rosemary came outside.
“Hello, girls,” she greeted them. “I’m so glad to see you.”

Nancy felt the warmness of the welcome but thought it was tinged with
worry. She wondered if another “ghost” incident had taken place at the
mansion.

The girls took their suitcases from the car and followed Mrs. Hayes
inside. Although the furnishings looked rather worn, they were still
very beautiful. The high-ceilinged rooms opened off a center hall and in
a quick glance Nancy saw lovely damask draperies, satin-covered sofas
and chairs, and on the walls, family portraits in large gilt frames of
scrollwork design.

Aunt Rosemary went to the foot of the shabbily carpeted stairway, took
hold of the handsome mahogany balustrade, and called, “Mother, the girls
are here!”

In a moment a slender, frail-looking woman with snow-white hair started
to descend the steps. Her face, though older in appearance than
Rosemary’s, had the same gentle smile. As Miss Flora reached the foot of
the stairs, she held out her hands to both girls.

At once Helen said, “I’d like to present Nancy Drew, Miss Flora.”

“I’m so glad you could come, my dear,” the elderly woman said. “I know
that you’re going to solve this mystery which has been bothering
Rosemary and me. I’m sorry not to be able to entertain you more
auspiciously, but a haunted house hardly lends itself to gaiety.”

The dainty, yet stately, Miss Flora swept toward a room which she
referred to as the parlor. It was opposite the library. She sat down in
a high-backed chair and asked everyone else to be seated.

“Mother,” said Aunt Rosemary, “we don’t have to be so formal with Nancy
and Helen. I’m sure they’ll understand that we’ve just been badly
frightened.” She turned towards the girls. “Something happened a little
while ago that has made us very jittery.”

“Yes,” Miss Flora said. “A pearl necklace of mine was stolen!”

“You don’t mean the lovely one that has been in the family so many
years!” Helen cried out.

The two women nodded. Then Miss Flora said, “Oh, I probably was very
foolish. It’s my own fault. While I was in my room, I took the necklace
from the hiding place where I usually keep it. The catch had not worked
well the last time I wore the pearls and I wanted to examine it. While I
was doing this, Rosemary called to me to come downstairs. The gardener
was here and wanted to talk about some work. I put the necklace in my
dresser drawer. When I returned ten minutes later the necklace wasn’t
there!”

“How dreadful!” said Nancy sympathetically. “Had anybody come into the
house during that time?”

“Not to our knowledge,” Aunt Rosemary replied. “Ever since we’ve had
this ghost visiting us we’ve kept every door and window on the first
floor locked all the time.”

Nancy asked if the two women had gone out into the garden to speak to
their helper. “Mother did,” said Mrs. Hayes. “But I was in the kitchen
the entire time. If anyone came in the back door, I certainly would have
seen the person.”

“Is there a back stairway to the second floor?” Nancy asked.

“Yes,” Miss Flora answered. “But there are doors at both top and bottom
and we keep them locked. No one could have gone up that way.”

“Then anyone who came into the house had to go up by the way of the
front stairs?”

“Yes.” Aunt Rosemary smiled a little. “But if anyone had, I would have
noticed. You probably heard how those stairs creak when Mother came
down. This can be avoided if you hug the wall, but practically no one
knows that.”

“May I go upstairs and look around?” Nancy questioned.

“Of course, dear. And I’ll show you and Helen to your room,” Aunt
Rosemary said.

The girls picked up their suitcases and followed the two women up the
stairs. Nancy and Helen were given a large, quaint room at the front of
the old house over the library. They quickly deposited their luggage,
then Miss Flora led the way across the hall to her room, which was
directly above the parlor. It was large and very attractive with its
canopied mahogany bed and an old-fashioned candlewick spread. The
dresser, dressing table, and chairs also were mahogany. Long chintz
draperies hung at the windows.

An eerie feeling began to take possession of Nancy. She could almost
feel the presence of a ghostly burglar on the premises. Though she tried
to shake off the mood, it persisted. Finally she told herself that it
was possible the thief was still around. If so, he must be hiding.

Against one wall stood a large walnut wardrobe. Helen saw Nancy gazing
at it intently. She went over and whispered, “Do you think there might
be someone inside?”

“Who knows?” Nancy replied in a low voice. “Let’s find out!”

She walked across the room, and taking hold of the two knobs on the
double doors, opened them wide.

The anxious group stared inside the wardrobe. No one stood there.
Dresses, suits, and coats hung in an orderly row.

Nancy took a step forward and began separating them. Someone, she
thought, might be hiding behind the clothes. The others in the room held
their breaths as she made a thorough search.

“No one here!” she finally announced, and a sigh of relief escaped the
lips of Miss Flora and Aunt Rosemary.

The young sleuth said she would like to make a thorough inspection of
all possible hiding places on the second floor. With Helen helping her,
they went from room to room, opening wardrobe doors and looking under
beds. They did not find the thief.

Nancy suggested that Miss Flora and Aunt Rosemary report the theft to
the police, but the older woman shook her head. Mrs. Hayes, although she
agreed this might be wise, added softly, “Mother just _might_ be
mistaken. She’s a little forgetful at times about where she puts
things.”

With this possibility in mind, she and the girls looked in every drawer
in the room, under the mattress and pillows, and even in the pockets of
Miss Flora’s clothes. The pearl necklace was not found. Nancy suggested
that she and Helen try to find out how the thief had made his entrance.

Helen led the way outdoors. At once Nancy began to look for footprints.
No tracks were visible on the front or back porches, or on any of the
walks, which were made of finely crushed stone.

“We’ll look in the soft earth beneath the windows,” Nancy said. “Maybe
the thief climbed in.”

“But Aunt Rosemary said all the windows on the first floor are kept
locked,” Helen objected.

“No doubt,” Nancy said. “But I think we should look for footprints just
the same.”

The girls went from window to window, but there were no footprints
beneath any. Finally Nancy stopped and looked thoughtfully at the ivy on
the walls.

“Do you think the thief climbed up to the second floor that way?” Helen
asked her. “But there’d still be footprints on the ground.”

Nancy said that the thief could have carried a plank with him, laid it
down, and stepped from the walk to the wall of the house. “Then he could
have climbed up the ivy and down again, and gotten back to the walk
without leaving any footprints.”

Once more Nancy went around the entire house, examining every bit of ivy
which wound up from the foundation. Finally she said, “No, the thief
didn’t get into the house this way.”

“Well, he certainly didn’t fly in,” said Helen. “So _how_ did he enter?”

Nancy laughed. “If I could tell you that I’d have the mystery half
solved.”

She said that she would like to look around the grounds of Twin Elms.
“It may give us a clue as to how the thief got into the house.”

As they strolled along, Nancy kept a sharp lookout but saw nothing
suspicious. At last they came to a half-crumbled brick walk laid out in
an interesting crisscross pattern.

“Where does this walk lead?” Nancy asked.

“Well, I guess originally it went over to Riverview Manor, the next
property,” Helen replied. “I’ll show you that mansion later. The first
owner was a brother of the man who built this place.”

Helen went on to say that Riverview Manor was a duplicate of Twin Elms
mansion. The two brothers had been inseparable companions, but their
sons who later lived there had had a violent quarrel and had become
lifelong enemies.

“Riverview Manor has been sold several times during the years but has
been vacant for a long time.”

“You mean no one lives there now?” Nancy asked. As Helen nodded, she
added with a laugh, “Then maybe that’s the ghost’s home!”

“In that case he really must be a ghost,” said Helen lightly. “There’s
not a piece of furniture in the house.”

The two girls returned to the Twin Elms mansion and reported their lack
of success in picking up a clue to the intruder. Nancy, recalling that
many Colonial houses had secret entrances and passageways, asked Miss
Flora, “Do you know of any secret entrance to your home that the thief
could use?”

She said no, and explained that her husband had been a rather reticent
person and had passed away when Rosemary was only a baby. “It’s just
possible he knew of a secret entrance, but did not want to worry me by
telling me about it,” Mrs. Turnbull said.

Aunt Rosemary, sensing that her mother was becoming alarmed by the
questions, suggested that they all have lunch. The two girls went with
her to the kitchen and helped prepare a tasty meal of chicken salad,
biscuits, and fruit gelatin.

During the meal the conversation covered several subjects, but always
came back to the topic of the mystery. They had just finished eating
when suddenly Nancy sat straight up in her chair.

“What’s the matter?” Helen asked her.

Nancy was staring out the dining-room door toward the stairway in the
hall. Then she turned to Miss Flora. “Did you leave a radio on in your
bedroom?”

“Why, no.”

“Did you, Aunt Rosemary?”

“No. Neither Mother nor I turned our radios on this morning. Why do—”
She stopped speaking, for now all of them could distinctly hear music
coming from the second floor.

Helen and Nancy were out of their chairs instantly. They dashed into the
hall and up the stairway. The music was coming from Miss Flora’s room,
and when the girls rushed in, they knew indeed that it was from her
radio.

Nancy went over to examine the set. It was an old one and did not have a
clock attachment with an automatic control.

“Someone came into this room and turned on the radio!” she stated.

A look of alarm came over Helen’s face, but she tried to shake off her
nervousness and asked, “Nancy, do you think the radio could have been
turned on by remote control? I’ve heard of such things.”

Nancy said she doubted this. “I’m afraid, Helen, that the thief has been
in the house all the time. He and the ghost are one and the same person.
Oh, I wish we had looked before in the cellar and the attic. Maybe it’s
not too late. Come on!”

Helen, instead of moving from the room, stared at the fireplace.
“Nancy,” she said, “do you suppose someone is hiding up there?”

Without hesitation she crossed the room, got down on her knees, and
tried to look up the chimney. The damper was closed. Reaching her arm
up, Helen pulled the handle to open it.

The next moment she cried out, “Ugh!”

“Oh, Helen, you poor thing!” Nancy exclaimed, running to her friend’s
side.

A shower of soot had come down, covering Helen’s hair, face, shoulders,
and arms.

“Get me a towel, will you, Nancy?” she requested.

Nancy dashed to the bathroom and grabbed two large towels. She wrapped
them around her friend, then went with Helen to help her with a shampoo
and general cleanup job. Finally Nancy brought her another sports dress.

“I guess my idea about chimneys wasn’t so good,” Helen stated ruefully.
“And we’re probably too late to catch the thief.”

Nevertheless, she and Nancy climbed the stairs to the attic and looked
behind trunks and boxes to see if anyone were hiding. Next, the girls
went to the cellar and inspected the various rooms there. Still there
was no sign of the thief who had entered Twin Elms.

After Miss Flora had heard the whole story, she gave a nervous sigh.
“It’s the ghost—there’s no other explanation.”

“But why,” Aunt Rosemary asked, “has a ghost suddenly started performing
here? This house has been occupied since 1785 and no ghost was ever
reported haunting the place.”

“Well, apparently robbery is the motive,” Nancy replied. “But why the
thief bothers to frighten you is something I haven’t figured out yet.”

“The main thing,” Helen spoke up, “is to catch him!”

“Oh, if we only could!” Miss Flora said, her voice a bit shaky.

The girls were about to pick up the luncheon dishes from the table, to
carry them to the kitchen, when the front door knocker sounded loudly.

“Oh, dear,” said Miss Flora, “who can that be? Maybe it’s the thief and
he’s come to harm us!”

Aunt Rosemary put an arm around her mother’s shoulders. “Please don’t
worry,” she begged. “I think our caller is probably the man who wants to
buy Twin Elms.” She turned to Nancy and Helen. “But Mother doesn’t want
to sell for the low price that he is offering.”

Nancy said she would go to the door. She set the dishes down and walked
out to the hall. Reaching the great door, she flung it open.

Nathan Gomber stood there!

For several seconds Nathan Gomber stared at Nancy in disbelief. “You!”
he cried out finally.

“You didn’t expect to find me here, did you?” she asked coolly.

“I certainly didn’t. I thought you’d taken my advice and stayed with
your father. Young people today are so hardhearted!” Gomber wagged his
head in disgust.

Nancy ignored Gomber’s remarks. Shrugging, the man pushed his way into
the hall. “I know this. If anything happens to your father, you’ll never
forgive yourself. But you can’t blame Nathan Gomber! I warned you!”

Still Nancy made no reply. She kept looking at him steadily, trying to
figure out what was really in his mind. She was convinced it was not
solicitude for her father.

Nathan Gomber changed the subject abruptly. “I’d like to see Mrs.
Turnbull and Mrs. Hayes,” he said. “Go call them.”

Nancy was annoyed by Gomber’s crudeness, but she turned around and went
down the hall to the dining room.

“We heard every word,” Miss Flora said in a whisper. “I shan’t see Mr.
Gomber. I don’t want to sell this house.”

Nancy was amazed to hear this. “You mean he’s the person who wants to
buy it?”

“Yes.”

Instantly Nancy was on the alert. Because of the nature of the railroad
deal in which Nathan Gomber was involved, she was distrustful of his
motives in wanting to buy Twin Elms. It flashed through her mind that
perhaps he was trying to buy it at a very low price and planned to sell
it off in building lots at a huge profit.

“Suppose I go tell him you don’t want to sell,” Nancy suggested in a low
voice.

But her caution was futile. Hearing footsteps behind her, she turned to
see Gomber standing in the doorway.

“Howdy, everybody!” he said.

Miss Flora, Aunt Rosemary, and Helen showed annoyance. It was plain that
all of them thought the man completely lacking in good manners.

Aunt Rosemary’s jaw was set in a grim line, but she said politely,
“Helen, this is Mr. Gomber. Mr. Gomber, my niece, Miss Corning.”

“Pleased to meet you,” said their caller, extending a hand to shake
Helen’s.

“Nancy, I guess you’ve met Mr. Gomber,” Aunt Rosemary went on.

“Oh, sure!” Nathan Gomber said with a somewhat raucous laugh. “Nancy and
me, we’ve met!”

“Only once,” Nancy said pointedly.

Ignoring her rebuff, he went on, “Nancy Drew is a very strange young
lady. Her father’s in great danger and I tried to warn her to stick
close to him. Instead of that, she’s out here visiting you folks.”

“Her father’s in danger?” Miss Flora said worriedly.

“Dad says he’s not,” Nancy replied. “And besides, I’m sure my father
would know how to take care of any enemies.” She looked straight at
Nathan Gomber, as if to let him know that the Drews were not easily
frightened.

“Well,” the caller said, “let’s get down to business.” He pulled an
envelope full of papers from his pocket. “Everything’s here—all ready
for you to sign, Mrs. Turnbull.”

“I don’t wish to sell at such a low figure,” Miss Flora told him firmly.
“In fact, I don’t know that I want to sell at all.”

Nathan Gomber tossed his head. “You’ll sell all right,” he prophesied.
“I’ve been talking to some of the folks downtown. Everybody knows this
old place is haunted and nobody would give you five cents for it—that
is, nobody but me.”

As he waited for his words to sink in, Nancy spoke up, “If the house is
haunted, why do you want it?”

“Well,” Gomber answered, “I guess I’m a gambler at heart. I’d be willing
to put some money into this place, even if there is a ghost parading
around.” He laughed loudly, then went on, “I declare it might be a real
pleasure to meet a ghost and get the better of it!”

Nancy thought with disgust, “Nathan Gomber, you’re about the most
conceited, obnoxious person I’ve met in a long time.”

Suddenly the expression of cunning on the man’s face changed completely.
An almost wistful look came into the eyes. He sat down on one of the
dining-room chairs and rested his chin in his hand.

“I guess you think I’m just a hardheaded businessman with no feelings,”
he said. “The truth is I’m a real softy. I’ll tell you why I want this
old house so bad. I’ve always dreamed of owning a Colonial mansion, and
having a kinship with early America. You see, my family were poor folks
in Europe. Now that I’ve made a little money, I’d like to have a home
like this to roam around in and enjoy its traditions.”

Miss Flora seemed to be touched by Gomber’s story. “I had no idea you
wanted the place so much,” she said kindly. “Maybe I ought to give it
up. It’s really too big for us.”

As Aunt Rosemary saw her mother weakening, she said quickly, “You don’t
have to sell this house, Mother. You know you love it. So far as the
ghost is concerned, I’m sure that mystery is going to be cleared up.
Then you’d be sorry you had parted with Twin Elms. Please don’t say
yes!”

As Gomber gave Mrs. Hayes a dark look, Nancy asked him, “Why don’t you
buy Riverview Manor? It’s a duplicate of this place and is for sale. You
probably could purchase it at a lower price than you could this one.”

“I’ve seen that place,” the man returned. “It’s in a bad state. It would
cost me a mint of money to fix it up. No sir. I want this place and I’m
going to have it!”

This bold remark was too much for Aunt Rosemary. Her eyes blazing, she
said, “Mr. Gomber, this interview is at an end. Good-by!”

To Nancy’s delight and somewhat to her amusement, Nathan Gomber obeyed
the “order” to leave. He seemed to be almost meek as he walked through
the hall and let himself out the front door.

“Of all the nerve!” Helen burst out.

“Perhaps we shouldn’t be too hard on the man,” Miss Flora said timidly.
“His story is a pathetic one and I can see how he might want to pretend
he had an old American family background.”

“I’d like to bet a cooky Mr. Gomber didn’t mean one word of what he was
saying,” Helen remarked.

“Oh dear, I’m so confused,” said Miss Flora, her voice trembling. “Let’s
all sit down in the parlor and talk about it a little more.”

The two girls stepped back as Miss Flora, then Aunt Rosemary, left the
dining room. They followed to the parlor and sat down together on the
recessed couch by the fireplace. Nancy, on a sudden hunch, ran to a
front window to see which direction Gomber had taken. To her surprise he
was walking down the winding driveway.

“That’s strange. Evidently he didn’t drive,” Nancy told herself. “It’s
quite a walk into town to get a train or bus to River Heights.”

As Nancy mulled over this idea, trying to figure out the answer, she
became conscious of creaking sounds. Helen suddenly gave a shriek. Nancy
turned quickly.

“Look!” Helen cried, pointing toward the ceiling, and everyone stared
upward.

_The crystal chandelier had suddenly started swaying from side to side!_

“The ghost again!” Miss Flora cried out. She looked as if she were about
to faint.

Nancy’s eyes quickly swept the room. Nothing else in it was moving, so
vibration was not causing the chandelier to sway. As it swung back and
forth, a sudden thought came to the young sleuth. Maybe someone in Miss
Flora’s room above was causing the shaking.

“I’m going upstairs to investigate,” Nancy told the others.

Racing noiselessly on tiptoe out of the room and through the hall, she
began climbing the stairs, hugging the wall so the steps would not
creak. As she neared the top, Nancy was sure she heard a door close.
Hurrying along the hall, she burst into Miss Flora’s bedroom. No one was
in sight!

[Illustration: The chandelier suddenly started to sway]

“Maybe this time the ghost couldn’t get away and is in that wardrobe!”
Nancy thought.

Helen and her relatives had come up the stairs behind Nancy. They
reached the bedroom just as she flung open the wardrobe doors. But for
the second time she found no one hiding there.

Nancy bit her lip in vexation. The ghost was clever indeed. Where _had_
he gone? She had given him no time to go down the hall or run into
another room. Yet there was no denying the fact that he had been in Miss
Flora’s room!

“Tell us why you came up,” Helen begged her. Nancy told her theory, but
suddenly she realized that maybe she was letting her imagination run
wild. It was possible, she admitted to the others, that no one had
caused the chandelier to shake.

“There’s only one way to find out,” she said. “I’ll make a test.”

Nancy asked Helen to go back to the first floor and watch the
chandelier. She would try to make it sway by rocking from side to side
on the floor above it.

“If this works, then I’m sure we’ve picked up a clue to the ghost,” she
said hopefully.

Helen readily agreed and left the room. When Nancy thought her friend
had had time to reach the parlor below, she began to rock hard from side
to side on the spot above the chandelier.

She had barely started the test when from the first floor Helen Corning
gave a piercing scream!

“Something has happened to Helen!” Aunt Rosemary cried out fearfully.

Nancy was already racing through the second-floor hallway. Reaching the
stairs, she leaped down them two steps at a time. Helen Corning had
collapsed in a wing chair in the parlor, her hands over her face.

“Helen! What happened?” Nancy asked, reaching her friend’s side.

“Out there! Looking in that window!” Helen pointed to the front window
of the parlor next to the hall. “The most horrible face I ever saw!”

“Was it a man’s face?” Nancy questioned.

“Oh, I don’t know. It looked just like a gorilla!” Helen closed her eyes
as if to shut out the memory of the sight.

Nancy did not wait to hear any more. In another second she was at the
front door and had yanked it open. Stepping outside, she looked all
around. She could see no animal near the house, nor any sign under the
window that one had stood there.

Puzzled, the young sleuth hurried down the steps and began a search of
the grounds. By this time Helen had collected her wits and come outside.
She joined Nancy and together they looked in every outbuilding and
behind every clump of bushes on the grounds of Twin Elms. They did not
find one footprint or any other evidence to prove that a gorilla or
other creature had been on the grounds of the estate.

“I saw it! I know I saw it!” Helen insisted.

“I don’t doubt you,” Nancy replied.

“Then what explanation is there?” Helen demanded. “You know I never did
believe in spooks. But if we have many more of these weird happenings
around here, I declare I’m going to start believing in ghosts.”

Nancy laughed. “Don’t worry, Helen,” she said. “There’ll be a logical
explanation for the face at the window.”

The girls walked back to the front door of the mansion. Miss Flora and
Aunt Rosemary stood there and immediately insisted upon knowing what had
happened. As Helen told them, Nancy once more surveyed the outside of
the window at which Helen had seen the terrifying face.

“I have a theory,” she spoke up. “Our ghost simply leaned across from
the end of the porch and held a mask in front of the window.” Nancy
stretched her arm out to demonstrate how this was possible.

“So that’s why he didn’t leave any footprints under the window,” Helen
said. “But he certainly got away from here fast.” She suddenly laughed.
“He must be on some ghosts’ track team.”

Her humor, Nancy was glad to see, relieved the tense situation. She had
noticed Miss Flora leaning wearily on her daughter’s arm.

“You’d better lie down and rest, Mother,” Mrs. Hayes advised.

“I guess I will,” Aunt Flora agreed.

It was suggested that the elderly woman use Aunt Rosemary’s room, while
the others continued the experiment with the chandelier.

Helen and Aunt Rosemary went into the parlor and waited as Nancy
ascended the front stairway and went to Miss Flora’s bedroom. Once more
she began to rock from side to side. Downstairs, Aunt Rosemary and her
niece were gazing intently at the ceiling.

“Look!” Helen exclaimed, pointing to the crystal chandelier. “It’s
moving!” In a moment it swung to the left, then back to the right.

“Nancy has proved that the ghost was up in my mother’s room!” Aunt
Rosemary said excitedly.

After a few minutes the rocking motion of the chandelier slackened and
finally stopped. Nancy came hurrying down the steps.

“Did it work?” she called.

“Yes, it did,” Aunt Rosemary replied. “Oh, Nancy, we must have two
ghosts?”

“Why do you say that?” Helen asked.

“One rocking the chandelier, the other holding the horrible face up to
the window. No one could have gone from Miss Flora’s room to the front
porch in such a short time. Oh, this complicates everything!”

“It certainly does,” Nancy agreed. “The question is, are the two ghosts
in cahoots? Or, it’s just possible, there is only one. He could have
disappeared from Miss Flora’s room without our seeing him and somehow
hurried to the first floor and let himself out the front door while we
were upstairs. I’m convinced there is at least one secret entrance into
this house, and maybe more. I think our next step should be to try to
find it—or them.”

“We’d better wash the luncheon dishes first,” Aunt Rosemary suggested.

As she and the girls worked, they discussed the mystery, and Mrs. Hayes
revealed that she had talked to her mother about leaving the house,
whether or not she sold it.

“I thought we might at least go away for a little vacation, but Mother
refuses to leave. She says she intends to remain right here until this
ghost business is settled.”

Helen smiled. “Nancy, my great-grandmother is a wonderful woman. She has
taught me a lot about courage and perseverance. I hope if I ever reach
her age, I’ll have half as much.”

“Yes, she’s an example to all of us,” Aunt Rosemary concurred.

Nancy nodded. “I agree. I haven’t known your mother long, Aunt Rosemary,
but I think she is one of the dearest persons I’ve ever met.”

“If Miss Flora won’t leave,” said Helen, “I guess that means we all
stay.”

“That’s settled,” said Nancy with a smile.

After the dishes were put away, the girls were ready to begin their
search for a secret entrance into the mansion.

“Let’s start with Miss Flora’s room,” Helen suggested.

“That’s a logical place,” Nancy replied, and took the lead up the
stairway.

Every inch of the wall, which was paneled in maple halfway to the
ceiling, was tapped. No hollow sound came from any section of it to
indicate an open space behind. The bureau, dressing table, and bed were
pulled away from the walls and Nancy carefully inspected every inch of
the paneling for cracks or wide seams to indicate a concealed door.

“Nothing yet,” she announced, and then decided to inspect the sides of
the fireplace.

The paneled sides and brick front revealed nothing. Next, Nancy looked
at the sides and rear of the stone interior. She could see nothing
unusual, and the blackened stones did not look as if they had ever been
disturbed.

She closed the damper which Helen had left open, and then suggested that
the searchers transfer to another room on the second floor. But no trace
of any secret entrance to the mansion could be found.

“I think we’ve had enough investigation for one day,” Aunt Rosemary
remarked.

Nancy was about to say that she was not tired and would like to
continue. But she realized that Mrs. Hayes had made this suggestion
because her mother was once more showing signs of fatigue and strain.

Helen, who also realized the situation, said, “Let’s have an early
supper. I’m starved!”

“I am, too,” Nancy replied, laughing gaily.

The mood was contagious and soon Miss Flora seemed to have forgotten
about her mansion being haunted. She sat in the kitchen while Aunt
Rosemary and the girls cooked the meal.

“_Um_, steak and French fried potatoes, fresh peas, and yummy floating
island for dessert,” said Helen. “I can hardly wait.”

“Fruit cup first,” Aunt Rosemary announced, taking a bowl of fruit from
the refrigerator.

Soon the group was seated at the table. Tactfully steering the
conversation away from the mystery, Nancy asked Miss Flora to tell the
group about parties and dances which had been held in the mansion long
ago.

The elderly woman smiled in recollection. “I remember one story my
husband told me of something that happened when he was a little boy,”
Miss Flora began. “His parents were holding a masquerade and he was
supposed to be in bed fast asleep. His nurse had gone downstairs to talk
to some of the servants. The music awakened my husband and he decided it
would be great fun to join the guests.

“‘I’ll put on a costume myself,’ he said to himself. He knew there were
some packed in a trunk in the attic.” Miss Flora paused. “By the way,
girls, I think that sometime while you are here you ought to see them.
They’re beautiful.

“Well, Everett went to the attic, opened the trunk, and searched until
he found a soldier’s outfit. It was very fancy—red coat and white
trousers. He had quite a struggle getting it on and had to turn the coat
sleeves way up. The knee britches came to his ankles, and the hat was so
large it came down over his ears.”

By this time Miss Flora’s audience was laughing and Aunt Rosemary
remarked, “My father really must have looked funny. Please go on,
Mother.”

“Little Everett came down the stairs and mingled with the masqueraders
at the dance. For a while he wasn’t noticed, then suddenly his mother
discovered the queer-looking figure.”

“And,” Aunt Rosemary interrupted, “quickly put him back to bed, I’m
sure.”

Miss Flora laughed. “That’s where you’re wrong. The guests thought the
whole thing was such fun that they insisted Everett stay. Some of the
women danced with him—he went to dancing school and was an excellent
dancer. Then they gave him some strawberries and cream and cake.”

Helen remarked, “And then put him to bed.”

Again Miss Flora laughed. “The poor little fellow never knew that he had
fallen asleep while he was eating, and his father had to carry him
upstairs. He was put into his little four-poster, costume and all. Of
course his nurse was horrified, and I’m afraid that during the rest of
the night the poor woman thought she would lose her position. But she
didn’t. In fact, she stayed with the family until all the children were
grown up.”

“Oh, that’s a wonderful story!” said Nancy.

She was about to urge Miss Flora to tell another story when the
telephone rang. Aunt Rosemary answered it, and then called to Nancy,
“It’s for you.”

Nancy hurried to the hall, grabbed up the phone, and said, “Hello.” A
moment later she cried out, “Dad! How wonderful to hear from you!”

Mr. Drew said that he had not found Willie Wharton and certain clues
seemed to indicate that he was not in Chicago, but in some other city.

“I have a few other matters to take care of that will keep me here until
tomorrow night. How are you getting along?”

“I haven’t solved the mystery yet,” his daughter reported. “We’ve had
some more strange happenings. I’ll certainly be glad to see you here at
Cliffwood. I know you can help me.”

“All right, I’ll come. But don’t try to meet me. The time is too
uncertain, and as a matter of fact, I may find that I’ll have to stay
here in Chicago.”

Mr. Drew said he would come out to the mansion by taxi. Briefly Nancy
related her experiences at Twin Elms, and after a little more
conversation, hung up. When she rejoined the others at the table, she
told them about Mr. Drew’s promised visit.

“Oh, I’ll be so happy to meet your father,” said Miss Flora. “We may
need legal advice in this mystery.”

There was a pause after this remark, with everyone silent for a few
moments. Suddenly each one in the group looked at the others, startled.
From somewhere upstairs came the plaintive strains of violin music. Had
the radio been turned on again by the ghost?

Nancy dashed from the table to find out.

Within five seconds Nancy had reached the second floor. The violin
playing suddenly ceased.

She raced into Miss Flora’s room, from which the sounds had seemed to
come. The radio was not on. Quickly Nancy felt the instrument to see if
it were even slightly warm to prove it had been in use.

“The music wasn’t being played on this,” she told herself, finding the
radio cool.

As Nancy dashed from the room, she almost ran into Helen. “What did you
find out?” her friend asked breathlessly.

“Nothing so far,” Nancy replied, as she raced into Aunt Rosemary’s
bedroom to check the bedside radio in there.

This instrument, too, felt cool to the touch.

She and Helen stood in the center of the room, puzzled frowns creasing
their foreheads. “There _was_ music, wasn’t there?” Helen questioned.

“I distinctly heard it,” Nancy replied. “But _where_ is the person who
played the violin? Or put a disk on a record player, or turned on a
hidden radio? Helen, I’m positive an intruder comes into this mansion by
some secret entrance and tries to frighten us all.”

“And succeeds,” Helen answered. “It’s positively eerie.”

“And dangerous,” Nancy thought.

“Let’s continue our search right after breakfast tomorrow,” Helen
proposed.

“We will,” Nancy responded. “But in the meantime I believe Miss Flora
and Aunt Rosemary, to say nothing of ourselves, need some police
protection.”

“I think you’re right,” Helen agreed. “Let’s go downstairs and suggest
it to the others.”

The girls returned to the first floor and Nancy told Mrs. Hayes and her
mother of the failure to find the cause of the violin playing, and what
she had in mind.

“Oh dear, the police will only laugh at us,” Miss Flora objected.

“Mother dear,” said her daughter, “the captain and his men didn’t
believe us before because they thought we were imagining things. But
Nancy and Helen heard music at two different times and they saw the
chandelier rock. I’m sure that Captain Rossland will believe Nancy and
send a guard out here.”

Nancy smiled at Miss Flora. “I shan’t ask the captain to believe in a
ghost or even hunt for one. I think all we should request at the moment
is that he have a man patrol the grounds here at night. I’m sure that
we’re perfectly safe while we’re all awake, but I must admit I’d feel a
little uneasy about going to bed wondering what that ghost may do next.”

Mrs. Turnbull finally agreed to the plan and Nancy went to the
telephone. Captain Rossland readily agreed to send a man out a little
later.

“He’ll return each night as long as you need him,” the officer stated.
“And I’ll tell him not to ring the bell to tell you when he comes. If
there is anyone who breaks into the mansion by a secret entrance, it
would be much better if he does not know a guard is on duty.”

“I understand,” said Nancy.

When Miss Flora, her daughter, and the two girls went to bed, they were
confident they would have a restful night. Nancy felt that if there was
no disturbance, then it would indicate that the ghost’s means of entry
into Twin Elms was directly from the outside. “In which case,” she
thought, “it will mean he saw the guard and didn’t dare come inside the
house.”

The young sleuth’s desire for a good night’s sleep was rudely thwarted
as she awakened about midnight with a start. Nancy was sure she had
heard a noise nearby. But now the house was quiet. Nancy listened
intently, then finally got out of bed.

“Perhaps the noise I heard came from outdoors,” she told herself.

Tiptoeing to a window, so that she would not awaken Helen, Nancy peered
out at the moonlit grounds. Shadows made by tree branches, which swayed
in a gentle breeze, moved back and forth across the lawn. The scent from
a rose garden in full bloom was wafted to Nancy.

“What a heavenly night!” she thought.

Suddenly Nancy gave a start. A furtive figure had darted from behind a
tree toward a clump of bushes. Was he the guard or the ghost? she
wondered. As Nancy watched intently to see if she could detect any
further movements of the mysterious figure, she heard padding footsteps
in the hall. In a moment there was a loud knock on her door.

“Nancy! Wake up! Nancy! Come quick!”

The voice was Miss Flora’s, and she sounded extremely frightened. Nancy
sped across the room, unlocked her door and opened it wide. By this time
Helen was awake and out of bed.

“What happened?” she asked sleepily.

Aunt Rosemary had come into the hall also. Her mother did not say a
word; just started back toward her own bedroom. The others followed,
wondering what they would find. Moonlight brightened part of the room,
but the area near the hall was dark.

“There! Up there!” Miss Flora pointed to a corner of the room near the
hall.

_Two burning eyes looked down on the watchers!_

Instantly Nancy snapped on the wall light and the group gazed upward at
a large brown owl perched on the old-fashioned, ornamental picture
molding.

“Oh!” Aunt Rosemary cried out. “How did that bird ever get in here?”

The others did not answer at once. Then Nancy, not wishing to frighten
Miss Flora, remarked as casually as she could, “It probably came down
the chimney.”

“But—” Helen started to say.

Nancy gave her friend a warning wink and Helen did not finish the
sentence. Nancy was sure she was going to say that the damper had been
closed and the bird could not possibly have flown into the room from the
chimney. Turning to Miss Flora, Nancy asked whether or not her bedroom
door had been locked.

“Oh, yes,” the elderly woman insisted. “I wouldn’t leave it unlocked for
anything.”

Nancy did not comment. Knowing that Miss Flora was a bit forgetful, she
thought it quite possible that the door had not been locked. An intruder
had entered, let the owl fly to the picture molding, then made just
enough noise to awaken the sleeping woman.

To satisfy her own memory about the damper, Nancy went over to the
fireplace and looked inside. The damper was closed.

“But if the door to the hall was locked,” she reasoned, “then the ghost
has some other way of getting into this room. And he escaped the
detection of the guard.”

“I don’t want that owl in here all night,” Miss Flora broke into Nancy’s
reverie. “We’ll have to get it out.”

“That’s not going to be easy,” Aunt Rosemary spoke up. “Owls have very
sharp claws and beaks and they use them viciously on anybody who tries
to disturb them. Mother, you come and sleep in my room the rest of the
night. We’ll chase the owl out in the morning.”

Nancy urged Miss Flora to go with her daughter. “I’ll stay here and try
getting Mr. Owl out of the house. Have you a pair of old heavy gloves?”

“I have some in my room,” Aunt Rosemary replied. “They’re thick leather.
I use them for gardening.”

She brought them to Nancy, who put the gloves on at once. Then she
suggested that Aunt Rosemary and her mother leave. Nancy smiled. “Helen
and I will take over Operation Owl.”

As the door closed behind the two women, Nancy dragged a chair to the
corner of the room beneath the bird. She was counting on the fact that
the bright overhead light had dulled the owl’s vision and she would be
able to grab it without too much trouble.

“Helen, will you open one of the screens, please?” she requested. “And
wish me luck!”

“Don’t let that thing get loose,” Helen warned as she unfastened the
screen and held it far out.

Nancy reached up and by stretching was just able to grasp the bird. In a
lightning movement she had put her two hands around its body and
imprisoned its claws. At once the owl began to bob its head and peck at
her arms above the gloves. Wincing with pain, she stepped down from the
chair and ran across the room.

The bird squirmed, darting its beak in first one direction, then
another. But Nancy managed to hold the owl in such a position that most
of the pecking missed its goal. She held the bird out the window,
released it, and stepped back. Helen closed the screen and quickly
fastened it.

“Oh!” Nancy said, gazing ruefully at her wrists which now showed several
bloody digs from the owl’s beak. “I’m glad that’s over.”

“And I am too,” said Helen. “Let’s lock Miss Flora’s door from the
outside, so that ghost can’t bring in any owls to the rest of us.”

Suddenly Helen grabbed Nancy’s arm. “I just thought of something,” she
said. “There’s supposed to be a police guard outside. Yet the ghost got
in here without being seen.”

“Either that, or there’s a secret entrance to this mansion which runs
underground, probably to one of the outbuildings on the property.”

Nancy now told about the furtive figure she had seen dart from behind a
tree. “I must find out right away if he was the ghost or the guard. I’ll
do a little snooping around. It’s possible the guard didn’t show up.”
Nancy smiled. “But if he did, and he’s any good, he’ll find me!”

“All right,” said Helen. “But, Nancy, do be careful. You’re really
taking awful chances to solve the mystery of Twin Elms.”

Nancy laughed softly as she walked back to the girls’ bedroom. She
dressed quickly, then went downstairs, put the back-door key in her
pocket, and let herself out of the house. Stealthily she went down the
steps and glided to a spot back of some bushes.

Seeing no one around, she came from behind them and ran across the lawn
to a large maple tree. She stood among the shadows for several moments,
then darted out toward a building which in Colonial times had been used
as the kitchen.

Halfway there, she heard a sound behind her and turned. A man stood in
the shadows not ten feet away. Quick as a wink one hand flew to a
holster on his hip.

“Halt!” he commanded.

Nancy halted as directed and stood facing the man. “Who are you?” she
asked.

“I’m a police guard, miss,” the man replied. “Just call me Patrick. And
who are you?”

Quickly Nancy explained and then asked to see his identification. He
opened his coat, pulled out a leather case, and showed her his shield
proving that he was a plain-clothes man. His name was Tom Patrick.

“Have you seen anyone prowling around the grounds?” Nancy asked him.

“Not a soul, miss. This place has been quieter than a cemetery tonight.”

When the young sleuth told him about the furtive figure she had seen
from the window, the detective laughed. “I believe you saw me,” he said.
“I guess I’m not so good at hiding as I thought I was.”

Nancy laughed lightly. “Anyway, you soon nabbed me,” she told him.

The two chatted for several minutes. Tom Patrick told Nancy that people
in Cliffwood regarded Mrs. Turnbull as being a little queer. They said
that if she thought her house was haunted, it was all in line with the
stories of the odd people who had lived there from time to time during
the past hundred years or so.

“Would this rumor make the property difficult to sell?” Nancy questioned
the detective.

“It certainly would.”

Nancy said she thought the whole thing was a shame. “Mrs. Turnbull is
one of the loveliest women I’ve ever met and there’s not a thing the
matter with her, except that once in a while she is forgetful.”

“You don’t think that some of these happenings we’ve heard about are
just pure imagination?” Tom Patrick asked.

“No, I don’t.”

Nancy now told him about the owl in Miss Flora’s bedroom. “The door was
locked, every screen was fastened, and the damper in the chimney closed.
You tell me how the owl got in there.”

Tom Patrick’s eyes opened wide. “You say this happened only a little
while ago?” he queried. When Nancy nodded, he added, “Of course I can’t
be everywhere on these grounds at once, but I’ve been round and round
the building. I’ve never stopped walking since I arrived. I don’t see
how anyone could have gotten inside that mansion without my seeing him.”

“I’ll tell you my theory,” said Nancy. “I believe there’s a secret
underground entrance from some other place on the grounds. It may be in
one of these outbuildings. Anyway, tomorrow morning I’m going on a
search for it.”

“Well, I wish you luck,” Tom Patrick said. “And if anything happens
during the night, I’ll let you know.”

Nancy pointed to a window on the second floor. “That’s my room,” she
said. “If you don’t have a chance to use the door knocker, just throw a
stone up against the screen to alert me. I’ll wake up instantly, I
know.”

The guard promised to do this and Nancy went back into the mansion. She
climbed the stairs and for a second time that night undressed. Helen had
already gone back to sleep, so Nancy crawled into the big double bed
noiselessly.

The two girls awoke the next morning about the same time and immediately
Helen asked for full details of what Nancy had learned outdoors the
night before. After hearing how her friend had been stopped by the
guard, she shivered.

“You might have been in real danger, Nancy, not knowing who he was. You
_must_ be more careful. Suppose that man had been the ghost?”

Nancy laughed but made no reply. The girls went downstairs and started
to prepare breakfast. In a few minutes Aunt Rosemary and her mother
joined them.

“Did you find out anything more last night?” Mrs. Hayes asked Nancy.

“Only that a police guard named Tom Patrick is on duty,” Nancy answered.

As soon as breakfast was over, the young sleuth announced that she was
about to investigate all the outbuildings on the estate.

“I’m going to search for an underground passage leading to the mansion.
It’s just possible that we hear no hollow sounds when we tap the walls,
because of double doors or walls where the entrance is.”

Aunt Rosemary looked at Nancy intently. “You are a real detective,
Nancy. I see now why Helen wanted us to ask you to find our ghost.”

Nancy’s eyes twinkled. “I may have some instinct for sleuthing,” she
said, “but unless I can solve this mystery, it won’t do any of us much
good.”

Turning to Helen, she suggested that they put on the old clothes they
had brought with them.

Attired in sport shirts and jeans, the girls left the house. Nancy led
the way first to the old icehouse. She rolled back the creaking, sliding
door and gazed within. The tall, narrow building was about ten feet
square. On one side were a series of sliding doors, one above the other.

“I’ve heard Miss Flora say,” Helen spoke up, “that in days gone by huge
blocks of ice were cut from the river when it was frozen over and
dragged here on a sledge. The blocks were stored here and taken off from
the top down through these various sliding doors.”

“That story rather rules out the possibility of any underground passage
leading from this building,” said Nancy. “I presume there was ice in
here most of the year.”

The floor was covered with dank sawdust, and although Nancy was sure she
would find nothing of interest beneath it, still she decided to take a
look. Seeing an old, rusted shovel in one corner, she picked it up and
began to dig. There was only dirt beneath the sawdust.

“Well, that clue fizzled out,” Helen remarked, as she and Nancy started
for the next building.

This had once been used as a smokehouse. It, too, had an earthen floor.
In one corner was a small fireplace, where smoldering fires of hickory
wood had once burned. The smoke had curled up a narrow chimney to the
second floor, which was windowless.

“Rows and rows of huge chunks of pork hung up there on hooks to be
smoked,” Helen explained, “and days later turned into luscious hams and
bacon.”

There was no indication of a secret opening and Nancy went outside the
small, two-story, peak-roofed structure and walked around. Up one side
of the brick building and leading to a door above were the remnants of a
ladder. Now only the sidepieces which had held the rungs remained.

“Give me a boost, will you, Helen?” Nancy requested. “I want to take a
look inside.”

Helen squatted on the ground and Nancy climbed to her shoulders. Then
Helen, bracing her hands against the wall, straightened up. Nancy opened
the half-rotted wooden door.

“No ghost here!” she announced.

Nancy jumped to the ground and started for the servants’ quarters. But a
thorough inspection of this brick-and-wood structure failed to reveal a
clue to a secret passageway.

There was only one outbuilding left to investigate, which Helen said was
the old carriage house. This was built of brick and was fairly large. No
carriages stood on its wooden floor, but around the walls hung old
harnesses and reins. Nancy paused a moment to examine one of the
bridles. It was set with two hand-painted medallions of women’s
portraits.

Suddenly her reflection was interrupted by a scream. Turning, she was
just in time to see Helen plunge through a hole in the floor. In a flash
Nancy was across the carriage house and looking down into a gaping hole
where the rotted floor had given way.

“Helen!” she cried out in alarm.

“I’m all right,” came a voice from below. “Nice and soft down here.
Please throw me your flash.”

Nancy removed the flashlight from the pocket of her jeans and tossed it
down.

“I thought maybe I’d discovered something,” Helen said. “But this is
just a plain old hole. Give me a hand, will you, so I can climb up?”

Nancy lay flat on the floor and with one arm grabbed a supporting beam
that stood in the center of the carriage house. Reaching down with the
other arm, she assisted Helen in her ascent.

“We’d better watch our step around here,” Nancy said as her friend once
more stood beside her.

“You’re so right,” Helen agreed, brushing dirt off her jeans. Helen’s
plunge had given Nancy an idea that there might be other openings in the
floor and that one of them could be an entrance to a subterranean
passage. But though she flashed her light over every inch of the
carriage-house floor, she could discover nothing suspicious.

“Let’s quit!” Helen suggested. “I’m a mess, and besides, I’m hungry.”

“All right,” Nancy agreed. “Are you game to search the cellar this
afternoon?”

“Oh, sure.”

After lunch they started to investigate the storerooms in the cellar.
There was a cool stone room where barrels of apples had once been kept.
There was another, formerly filled with bags of whole-wheat flour,
barley, buckwheat, and oatmeal.

“And everything was grown on the estate,” said Helen.

“Oh, it must have been perfectly wonderful,” Nancy said. “I wish we
could go back in time and see how life was in those days!”

“Maybe if we could, we’d know how to find that ghost,” Helen remarked.
Nancy thought so too.

As the girls went from room to room in the cellar, Nancy beamed her
flashlight over every inch of wall, and floor. At times, the young
sleuth’s pulse would quicken when she thought she had discovered a trap
door or secret opening. But each time she had to admit failure—there
was no evidence of either one in the cellar.

“This has been a discouraging day,” Nancy remarked, sighing. “But I’m
not giving up.”

Helen felt sorry for her friend. To cheer Nancy, she said with a laugh,
“Storeroom after storeroom but no room to store a ghost!”

Nancy had to laugh, and together the two girls ascended the stairway to
the kitchen. After changing their clothes, they helped Aunt Rosemary
prepare the evening dinner. When the group had eaten and later gathered
in the parlor, Nancy reminded the others that she expected her father to
arrive the next day.

“Dad didn’t want me to bother meeting him, but I just can’t wait to see
him. I think I’ll meet all the trains from Chicago that stop here.”

“I hope your father will stay with us for two or three days,” Miss Flora
spoke up. “Surely he’ll have some ideas about our ghost.”

“And good ones, too,” Nancy said. “If he’s on the early train, he’ll
have breakfast with us. I’ll meet it at eight o’clock.”

But later that evening Nancy’s plans were suddenly changed. Hannah Gruen
telephoned her to say that a man at the telegraph office had called the
house a short time before to read a message from Mr. Drew. He had been
unavoidably detained and would not arrive Wednesday.

“In the telegram your father said that he will let us know when he will
arrive,” the housekeeper added.

“I’m disappointed,” Nancy remarked, “but I hope this delay means that
Dad is on the trail of Willie Wharton!”

“Speaking of Willie Wharton,” said Hannah, “I heard something about him
today.”

“What was that?” Nancy asked.

“That he was seen down by the river right here in River Heights a couple
of days ago!”

“You say Willie Wharton was seen in River Heights down by the river?”
Nancy asked unbelievingly.

“Yes,” Hannah replied. “I learned it from our postman, Mr. Ritter, who
is one of the people that sold property to the railroad. As you know,
Nancy, Mr. Ritter is very honest and reliable. Well, he said he’d heard
that some of the property owners were trying to horn in on this deal of
Willie Wharton’s for getting more money. But Mr. Ritter wouldn’t have a
thing to do with it—calls it a holdup.”

“Did Mr. Ritter himself see Willie Wharton?” Nancy asked eagerly.

“No,” the housekeeper replied. “One of the other property owners told
him Willie was around.”

“That man _could_ be mistaken,” Nancy suggested.

“Of course he might,” Hannah agreed. “And I’m inclined to think he is.
If your father is staying over in Chicago, it must be because of Willie
Wharton.”

Nancy did not tell Hannah what was racing through her mind. She said
good night cheerfully, but actually she was very much worried.

“Maybe Willie Wharton _was_ seen down by the river,” she mused. “And
maybe Dad was ‘unavoidably detained’ by an enemy of his in connection
with the railroad bridge project. One of the dissatisfied property
owners might have followed him to Chicago.”

Or, she reflected further, it was not inconceivable that Mr. Drew had
found Willie Wharton, only to have Willie hold the lawyer a prisoner.

As Nancy sat lost in anxious thought, Helen came into the hall.
“Something the matter?” she asked.

“I don’t know,” Nancy replied, “but I have a feeling there is. Dad
telegraphed to say that he wouldn’t be here tomorrow. Instead of wiring,
he always phones me or Hannah or his office when he is away and it seems
strange that he didn’t do so this time.”

“You told me a few days ago that your father had been threatened,” said
Helen. “Are you afraid it has something to do with that?”

“Yes, I am.”

“Is there anything I can do?” Helen offered.

“Thank you, Helen, but I think not. There isn’t anything I can do
either. We’ll just have to wait and see what happens. Maybe I’ll hear
from Dad again.”

Nancy looked so downcast that Helen searched her mind to find something
which would cheer her friend. Suddenly Helen had an idea and went to
speak to Miss Flora and Aunt Rosemary about it.

“I think it’s a wonderful plan if Nancy will do it,” Aunt Rosemary said.

Helen called Nancy from the hall and proposed that they all go to the
attic to look in the big trunk containing the old costumes.

“We might even put them on,” Miss Flora proposed, smiling girlishly.

“And you girls could dance the minuet,” said Aunt Rosemary
enthusiastically. “Mother plays the old spinet very well. Maybe she
would play a minuet for you.”

“I love your idea,” said Nancy. She knew that the three were trying to
boost her spirits and she appreciated it. Besides, what they had
proposed sounded like fun.

All of them trooped up the creaky attic stairs. In their haste, none of
the group had remembered to bring flashlights.

“I’ll go downstairs and get a couple,” Nancy offered.

“Never mind,” Aunt Rosemary spoke up. “There are some candles and
holders right here. We keep them for emergencies.”

She lighted two white candles which stood in old-fashioned, saucer-type
brass holders and led the way to the costume trunk.

As Helen lifted the heavy lid, Nancy exclaimed in delight, “How
beautiful the clothes are!”

She could see silks, satins, and laces at one side. At the other was a
folded-up rose velvet robe. She and Helen lifted out the garments and
held them up.

“They’re really lovelier than our formal dance clothes today,” Helen
remarked. “Especially the men’s!”

Miss Flora smiled. “And a lot more flattering!”

The entire trunk was unpacked, before the group selected what they would
wear.

“This pale-green silk gown with the panniers would look lovely on you,
Nancy,” Miss Flora said. “And I’m sure it’s just the right size, too.”

Nancy surveyed the tiny waist of the ball gown. “I’ll try it on,” she
said. Then laughingly she added, “But I’ll probably have to hold my
breath to close it in the middle. My, but the women in olden times
certainly had slim waistlines!”

Helen was holding up a man’s purple velvet suit. It had knee breeches
and the waistcoat had a lace-ruffled front. There were a tricorn hat,
long white stockings, and buckled slippers to complete the costume.

“I think I’ll wear this and be your partner, Nancy,” Helen said.

Taking off her pumps, she slid her feet into the buckled slippers. The
others laughed aloud. A man with a foot twice the size of Helen’s had
once worn the slippers!

“Never mind. I’ll stuff the empty space with paper,” Helen announced
gaily.

Miss Flora and Aunt Rosemary selected gowns for themselves, then opened
a good-sized box at the bottom of the trunk. It contained various kinds
of wigs worn in Colonial times. All were pure white and fluffy.

Carrying the costumes and wigs, the group descended to their bedrooms,
where they changed into the fancy clothes, then went to the first floor.
Miss Flora led the way into the room across the hall from the parlor.
She said it once had been the drawing room. Later it had become a
library, but the old spinet still stood in a corner.

Miss Flora sat down at the instrument and began to play Beethoven’s
“Minuet.” Aunt Rosemary sat down beside her.

Nancy and Helen, dubbed by the latter, Master and Mistress Colonial
America, began to dance. They clasped their right hands high in the air,
then took two steps backward and made little bows. They circled, then
strutted, and even put in a few steps with which no dancers in Colonial
times would have been familiar.

Aunt Rosemary giggled and clapped. “I wish President Washington would
come to see you,” she said, acting out her part in the entertainment.
“Mistress Nancy, prithee do an encore and Master Corning, wilt thou
accompany thy fair lady?”

The girls could barely keep from giggling. Helen made a low bow to her
aunt, her tricorn in her hand, and said, “At your service, my lady. Your
every wish is my command!”

The minuet was repeated, then as Miss Flora stopped playing, the girls
sat down.

[Illustration: “Is this your ghost?” the police guard asked]

“Oh, that was such fun!” said Nancy. “Some time I’d like to— Listen!”
she commanded suddenly.

From outside the house they could hear loud shouting. “Come here! You in
the house! Come here!”

Nancy and Helen dashed from their chairs to the front door. Nancy
snapped on the porch light and the two girls raced outside.

“Over here!” a man’s voice urged.

Nancy and Helen ran down the steps and out onto the lawn. Just ahead of
them stood Tom Patrick, the police detective. In a viselike grip he was
holding a thin, bent-over man whom the girls judged to be about fifty
years of age.

“Is this your ghost?” the guard asked.

His prisoner was struggling to free himself but was unable to get loose.
The girls hurried forward to look at the man.

“I caught him sneaking along the edge of the grounds,” Tom Patrick
announced.

“Let me go!” the man cried out angrily. “I’m no ghost. What are you
talking about?”

“You may not be a ghost,” the detective said, “but you could be the
thief who has been robbing this house.”

“What!” his prisoner exclaimed. “I’m no thief! I live around here.
Anyone will tell you I’m okay.”

“What’s your name and where do you live?” the detective prodded. He let
the man stand up straight but held one of his arms firmly.

“My name’s Albert Watson and I live over on Tuttle Road.”

“What were you doing on this property?”

Albert Watson said he had been taking a short cut home. His wife had
taken their car for the evening.

“I’d been to a friend’s house. You can call him and verify what I’m
saying. And you can call my wife, too. Maybe she’s home now and she’ll
come and get me.”

The guard reminded Albert Watson that he had not revealed why he was
sneaking along the ground.

“Well,” the prisoner said, “it was because of you. I heard downtown that
there was a detective patrolling this place and I didn’t want to bump
into you. I was afraid of just what did happen.” The man relaxed a
little. “I guess you’re a pretty good guard at that.”

Detective Patrick let go of Albert Watson’s arm. “Your story sounds
okay, but we’ll go in the house and do some telephoning to find out if
you’re telling the truth.”

“You’ll find out all right. Why, I’m even a notary public! They don’t
give a notary’s license to dishonest folks!” the trespasser insisted.
Then he stared at Nancy and Helen, “What are you doing in those funny
clothes?”

“We—are—we were having a little costume party,” Helen responded. In
the excitement she and Nancy had forgotten what they were wearing!

The two girls started for the house, with the men following. When Mr.
Watson and the guard saw Miss Flora and Aunt Rosemary also in costume
they gazed at the women in amusement.

Nancy introduced Mr. Watson. Miss Flora said she knew of him, although
she had never met the man. Two phone calls by the guard confirmed
Watson’s story. In a little while his wife arrived at Twin Elms to drive
her husband home, and Detective Patrick went back to his guard duty.

Aunt Rosemary then turned out all the lights on the first floor and she,
Miss Flora, and the girls went upstairs. Bedroom doors were locked, and
everyone hoped there would be no disturbance during the night.

“It was a good day, Nancy,” said Helen, yawning, as she climbed into
bed.

“Yes, it was,” said Nancy. “Of course, I’m a little disappointed that we
aren’t farther along solving the mystery but maybe by this time
tomorrow—” She looked toward Helen who did not answer. She was already
sound asleep.

Nancy herself was under the covers a few minutes later. She lay staring
at the ceiling, going over the various events of the past two days. As
her mind recalled the scene in the attic when they were pulling costumes
from the old trunk, she suddenly gave a start.

“That section of wall back of the trunk!” she told herself. “The
paneling looked different somehow from the rest of the attic wall. Maybe
it’s movable and leads to a secret exit! Tomorrow I’ll find out!”

As soon as the two girls awoke the next morning, Nancy told Helen her
plan.

“I’m with you,” said Helen. “Oh, I do wish we could solve the mystery of
the ghost! I’m afraid that it’s beginning to affect Miss Flora’s health
and yet she won’t leave Twin Elms.”

“Maybe we can get Aunt Rosemary to keep her in the garden most of the
day,” Nancy suggested. “It’s perfectly beautiful outside. We might even
serve lunch under the trees.”

“I’m sure they’d love that,” said Helen. “As soon as we get downstairs,
let’s propose it.”

Both women liked the suggestion. Aunt Rosemary had guessed their
strategy and was appreciative of it.

“I’ll wash and dry the dishes,” Nancy offered when breakfast was over.
“Miss Flora, why don’t you and Aunt Rosemary go outside right now and
take advantage of this lovely sunshine?”

The frail, elderly woman smiled. There were deep circles under her eyes,
indicating that she had had a sleepless night.

“And I’ll run the vacuum cleaner around and dust this first floor in
less than half an hour,” Helen said merrily.

Her relatives caught the spirit of her enthusiasm and Miss Flora
remarked, “I wish you girls lived here all the time. Despite our
troubles, you have brought a feeling of gaiety back into our lives.”

Both girls smiled at the compliment. As soon as the two women had gone
outdoors, the girls set to work with a will. At the end of the allotted
half hour, the first floor of the mansion was spotless. Nancy and Helen
next went to the second floor, quickly made the beds, and tidied the
bathrooms.

“And now for that ghost!” said Helen, brandishing her flashlight.

Nancy took her own from a bureau drawer.

“Let’s see if we can figure out how to climb these attic stairs without
making them creak,” Nancy suggested. “Knowing how may come in handy some
time.”

This presented a real challenge. Every inch of each step was tried
before the girls finally worked out a pattern to follow in ascending the
stairway noiselessly.

Helen laughed. “This will certainly be a memory test, Nancy. I’ll
rehearse our directions. First step, put your foot to the left near the
wall. Second step, right center. Third step, against the right wall.
I’ll need three feet to do that!”

Nancy laughed too. “For myself, I think I’ll skip the second step. Let’s
see. On the fourth and fifth it’s all right to step in the center, but
on the sixth you hug the left wall, on the seventh, the right wall—”

Helen interrupted. “But if you step on the eighth any place, it will
creak. So you skip it.”

“Nine, ten, and eleven are okay,” Nancy recalled. “But from there to
fifteen at the top we’re in trouble.”

“Let’s see if I remember,” said Helen. “On twelve, you go left, then
right, then right again. How can you do that without a jump and losing
your balance and tumbling down?”

“How about skipping fourteen and then stretching as far as you can to
reach the top one at the left where it doesn’t squeak,” Nancy replied.
“Let’s go!”

She and Helen went back to the second floor and began what was meant to
be a silent ascent. But both of them made so many mistakes at first the
creaking was terrific. Finally, however, the girls had the silent spots
memorized perfectly and went up noiselessly.

Nancy clicked on her flashlight and swung it onto the nearest
wood-paneled wall. Helen stared at it, then remarked, “This isn’t made
of long panels from ceiling to floor. It’s built of small pieces.”

“That’s right,” said Nancy. “But see if you don’t agree with me that the
spot back of the costume trunk near the chimney looks a little
different. The grain doesn’t match the other wood.”

The girls crossed the attic and Nancy beamed her flashlight over the
suspected paneling.

“It does look different,” Helen said. “This could be a door, I suppose.
But there’s no knob or other hardware on it.” She ran her finger over a
section just above the floor, following the cracks at the edge of a
four-by-two-and-a-half-foot space.

“If it’s a secret door,” said Nancy, “the knob is on the other side.”

“How are we going to open it?” Helen questioned.

“We might try prying the door open,” Nancy proposed. “But first I want
to test it.”

She tapped the entire panel with her knuckles. A look of disappointment
came over her face. “There’s certainly no hollow space behind it,” she
said.

“Let’s make sure,” said Helen. “Suppose I go downstairs and get a screw
driver and hammer? We’ll see what happens when we drive the screw driver
through this crack.”

“Good idea, Helen.”

While she was gone, Nancy inspected the rest of the attic walls and
floor. She did not find another spot which seemed suspicious. By this
time Helen had returned with the tools. Inserting the screw driver into
one of the cracks, she began to pound on the handle of it with the
hammer.

Nancy watched hopefully. The screw driver went through the crack very
easily but immediately met an obstruction on the other side. Helen
pulled the screw driver out. “Nancy, you try your luck.”

The young sleuth picked a different spot, but the results were the same.
There was no open space behind that portion of the attic wall.

“My hunch wasn’t so good,” said Nancy.

Helen suggested that they give up and go downstairs. “Anyway, I think
the postman will be here soon.” She smiled. “I’m expecting a letter from
Jim. Mother said she would forward all my mail.”

Nancy did not want to give up the search yet. But she nodded in
agreement and waved her friend toward the stairs. Then the young
detective sat down on the floor and cupped her chin in her hands. As she
stared ahead, Nancy noticed that Helen, in her eagerness to meet the
postman, had not bothered to go quietly down the attic steps. It sounded
as if Helen had picked the squeakiest spot on each step!

Nancy heard Helen go out the front door and suddenly realized that she
was in the big mansion all alone. “That may bring the ghost on a visit,”
she thought. “If he is around, he may think I went outside with Helen!
And I may learn where the secret opening is!”

Nancy sat perfectly still, listening intently. Suddenly she flung her
head up. Was it her imagination, or did she hear the creak of steps? she
was not mistaken. Nancy strained her ears, trying to determine from
where the sounds were coming.

“I’m sure they’re not from the attic stairs or the main staircase. And
not the back stairway. Even if the ghost was in the kitchen and unlocked
the door to the second floor, he’d know that the one at the top of the
stairs was locked from the other side.”

Nancy’s heart suddenly gave a leap. She was positive that the creaking
sounds were coming from somewhere behind the attic wall!

“A secret staircase!” she thought excitedly. “Maybe the ghost is
entering the second floor!”

Nancy waited until the sounds stopped, then she got to her feet, tiptoed
noiselessly down the attic steps and looked around. She could hear
nothing. Was the ghost standing quietly in one of the bedrooms? Probably
Miss Flora’s?

Treading so lightly that she did not make a sound, Nancy peered into
each room as she reached it. But no one was in any of them.

“Maybe he’s on the first floor!” Nancy thought.

She descended the main stairway, hugging the wall so she would not make
a sound. Reaching the first floor, Nancy peered into the parlor. No one
was there. She looked in the library, the dining room, and the kitchen.
She saw no one.

“Well, the ghost didn’t come into the house after all,” Nancy concluded.
“He may have intended to, but changed his mind.”

She felt more certain than at any time, however, that there was a secret
entrance to Twin Elms mansion from a hidden stairway. But how to find
it? Suddenly the young sleuth snapped her fingers. “I know what I’ll do!
I’ll set a trap for that ghost!”

She reflected that he had taken jewelry, but those thefts had stopped.
Apparently he was afraid to go to the second floor.

“I wonder if anything is missing from the first floor,” she mused.
“Maybe he has taken silverware or helped himself to some food.”

Going to the back door, Nancy opened it and called to Helen, who was now
seated in the garden with Miss Flora and Aunt Rosemary. “What say we
start lunch?” she called, not wishing to distress Miss Flora by bringing
up the subject of the mystery.

“Okay,” said Helen. In a few moments she joined Nancy, who asked if her
friend had received a letter.

Helen’s eyes sparkled. “I sure did. Oh, Nancy, I can hardly wait for Jim
to get home!”

Nancy smiled. “The way you describe him, I can hardly wait to see him
myself.” Then she told Helen the real reason she had called her into the
kitchen. She described the footsteps on what she was sure was a hidden,
creaking stairway, then added, “If we discover that food or something
else is missing we’ll know he’s been here again.”

Helen offered to inspect the flat silver. “I know approximately how many
pieces should be in the buffet drawer,” she said.

“And I’ll look over the food supplies,” Nancy suggested. “I have a
pretty good idea what was in the refrigerator and on the pantry shelf.”

It was not many minutes before each of the girls discovered articles
missing. Helen said that nearly a dozen teaspoons were gone and Nancy
figured that several cans of food, some eggs, and a quart of milk had
been taken.

“It just seems impossible to catch that thief,” Helen said with a sigh.

On a sudden hunch Nancy took down from the wall a memo pad and pencil
which hung there. Putting a finger to her lips to indicate that Helen
was not to comment, Nancy wrote on the sheet:

“I think the only way to catch the ghost is to trap him. I believe he
has one or more microphones hidden some place and that he hears all our
plans.”

Nancy looked up at Helen, who nodded silently. Nancy continued to write,
“I don’t want to worry Miss Flora or Aunt Rosemary, so let’s keep our
plans a secret. I suggest that we go to bed tonight as usual and carry
on a conversation about our plans for tomorrow. But actually we won’t
take off our clothes. Then about midnight let’s tiptoe downstairs to
watch. I’ll wait in the kitchen. Do you want to stay in the living
room?”

Again Helen nodded. Nancy, thinking that they had been quiet too long,
and that if there was an eavesdropper nearby he might become suspicious,
said aloud, “What would Miss Flora and Aunt Rosemary like for lunch,
Helen?”

“Why, uh—” Helen found it hard to transfer to the new subject.
“They—uh—both love soup.”

“Then I’ll make cream of chicken soup,” said Nancy. “Hand me a can of
chicken and rice, will you? And I’ll get the milk.”

As Helen was doing this, Nancy lighted a match, held her recently
written note over the sink, and set fire to the paper.

Helen smiled. “Nancy thinks of everything,” she said to herself.

The girls chatted gaily as they prepared the food and finally carried
four trays out to the garden. They did not mention their midnight plan.
The day in the garden was proving to be most beneficial to Miss Flora,
and the girls were sure she would sleep well that night.

Nancy’s plan was followed to the letter. Just as the grandfather clock
in the hall was striking midnight, Nancy arrived in the kitchen and sat
down to await developments. Helen was posted in a living-room chair near
the hall doorway. Moonlight streamed into both rooms but the girls had
taken seats in the shadows.

Helen was mentally rehearsing the further instructions which Nancy had
written to her during the afternoon. The young sleuth had suggested that
if Helen should see anyone, she was to run to the front door, open it,
and yell “Police!” At the same time she was to try to watch where the
intruder disappeared.

The minutes ticked by. There was not a sound in the house. Then suddenly
Nancy heard the front door open with a bang and Helen’s voice yell
loudly and clearly:

“Police! Help! Police!”

By the time Nancy had reached the front hall, Tom Patrick, the police
guard, had rushed into the house. “Here I am!” he called. “What’s the
matter?”

Helen led the way into the living room, and switched on the chandelier
light.

“That sofa next to the fireplace!” she said in a trembling move. “It
moved! I saw it move!”

“You mean somebody moved it?” the detective asked.

“I—I don’t know,” Helen replied. “I couldn’t see anybody.”

Nancy walked over to the old-fashioned sofa, set in the niche alongside
the fireplace. Certainly the piece was in place now. If the ghost had
moved it, he had returned the sofa to its original position.

“Let’s pull it out and see what we can find,” Nancy suggested.

She tugged at one end, while the guard pulled the other. It occurred to
Nancy that a person who moved it alone would have to be very strong.

“Do you think your ghost came up through a trap door or something?” the
detective asked.

Neither of the girls replied. They had previously searched the area, and
even now as they looked over every inch of the floor and the three walls
surrounding the high sides of the couch, they could detect nothing that
looked like an opening.

By this time Helen looked sheepish. “I—I guess I was wrong,” she said
finally. Turning to the police guard, she said, “I’m sorry to have taken
you away from your work.”

“Don’t feel too badly about it. But I’d better get back to my guard
duty,” the man said, and left the house.

“Oh, Nancy!” Helen cried out. “I’m so sorry!”

She was about to say more but Nancy put a finger to her lips. They could
use the same strategy for trapping the thief at another time. In case
the thief might be listening, Nancy did not want to give away their
secret.

Nancy felt that after all the uproar the ghost would not appear again
that night. She mentioned to Helen that they would go quietly upstairs
and get some sleep. Hugging the walls of the stairway once more, they
ascended noiselessly, tiptoed to their room, and got into bed.

“I’m certainly glad I didn’t wake up Miss Flora and Aunt Rosemary,” said
Helen sleepily as she whispered good night.

Though Nancy had been sure the ghost would not enter the mansion again
that night, she discovered in the morning that she had been mistaken.
More food had been stolen sometime between midnight and eight o’clock
when she and Helen started breakfast. Had the ghost taken it for
personal use or only to worry the occupants of Twin Elms?

“I missed my chance this time,” Nancy murmured to her friend. “After
this, I’d better not trust what that ghost’s next move may be!”

At nine o’clock Hannah Gruen telephoned the house. Nancy happened to
answer the ring and after the usual greeting was amazed to hear Hannah
say, “I’d like to speak to your father.”

“Why, Dad isn’t here!” Nancy told her. “Don’t you remember—the telegram
said he wasn’t coming?”

“He’s not there!” Hannah exclaimed. “Oh, this is bad, Nancy—very bad.”

“What do you mean, Hannah?” Nancy asked fearfully.

The housekeeper explained that soon after receiving the telegram on
Tuesday evening, Mr. Drew himself had phoned. “He wanted to know if you
were still in Cliffwood, Nancy. When I told him yes, he said he would
stop off there on his way home Wednesday.”

Nancy was frightened, but she asked steadily, “Hannah, did you happen to
mention the telegram to him?”

“No, I didn’t,” the housekeeper replied. “I didn’t think it was
necessary.”

“Hannah darling,” said Nancy, almost on the verge of tears, “I’m afraid
that telegram was a hoax!”

“A hoax!” Mrs. Gruen cried out.

“Yes. Dad’s enemies sent it to keep me from meeting him!”

“Oh, Nancy,” Hannah wailed, “you don’t suppose those enemies that Mr.
Gomber warned you about have waylaid your father and are keeping him
prisoner?”

“I’m afraid so,” said Nancy. Her knees began to quake and she sank into
the chair alongside the telephone table.

“What’ll we do?” Hannah asked. “Do you want me to notify the police?”

“Not yet. Let me do a little checking first.”

“All right, Nancy. But let me know what happens.”

“I will.”

Nancy put the phone down, then looked at the various telephone
directories which lay on the table. Finding one which contained River
Heights numbers, she looked for the number of the telegraph office and
put in a call. She asked the clerk who answered to verify that there had
been a telegram from Mr. Drew on Tuesday.

After a few minutes’ wait, the reply came. “We have no record of such a
telegram.”

Nancy thanked the clerk and hung up. By this time her hands were shaking
with fright. What had happened to her father?

Getting control of herself, Nancy telephoned in turn to the airport, the
railroad station, and the bus lines which served Cliffwood. She inquired
about any accidents which might have occurred on trips from Chicago the
previous day or on Tuesday night. In each case she was told there had
been none.

“Oh, what shall I do?” Nancy thought in dismay.

Immediately an idea came to her and she put in a call to the Chicago
hotel where her father had registered. Although she thought it unlikely,
it was just possible that he had changed his mind again and was still
there. But a conversation with the desk clerk dashed this hope.

“No, Mr. Drew is not here. He checked out Tuesday evening. I don’t know
his plans, but I’ll connect you with the head porter. He may be able to
help you.”

In a few seconds Nancy was asking the porter what he could tell her to
clear up the mystery of her father’s disappearance. “All I know, miss,
is that your father told me he was taking a sleeper train and getting
off somewhere Wednesday morning to meet his daughter.”

“Thank you. Oh, thank you very much,” said Nancy. “You’ve helped me a
great deal.”

So her father had taken the train home and probably had reached the
Cliffwood station! Next she must find out what had happened to him after
that!

Nancy told Aunt Rosemary and Helen what she had learned, then got in her
convertible and drove directly to the Cliffwood station. There she spoke
to the ticket agent. Unfortunately, he could not identify Mr. Drew from
Nancy’s description as having been among the passengers who got off
either of the two trains arriving from Chicago on Wednesday.

Nancy went to speak to the taximen. Judging by the line of cabs, she
decided that all the drivers who served the station were on hand at the
moment. There had been no outgoing trains for nearly an hour and an
incoming express was due in about fifteen minutes.

“I’m in luck,” the young detective told herself. “Surely one of these
men must have driven Dad.”

She went from one to another, but each of them denied having carried a
passenger of Mr. Drew’s description the day before.

By this time Nancy was in a panic. She hurried inside the station to a
telephone booth and called the local police station. Nancy asked to
speak to the captain and in a moment he came on the line.

“Captain Rossland speaking,” he said crisply.

Nancy poured out her story. She told of the warning her father had
received in River Heights and her fear that some enemy of his was now
detaining the lawyer against his will.

“This is very serious, Miss Drew,” Captain Rossland stated. “I will put
men on the case at once,” he said.

As Nancy left the phone booth, a large, gray-haired woman walked up to
her. “Pardon me, miss, but I couldn’t help overhearing what you said. I
believe maybe I can help you.”

Nancy was surprised and slightly suspicious. Maybe this woman was
connected with the abductors and planned to make Nancy a prisoner too by
promising to take her to her father!

“Don’t look so frightened,” the woman said, smiling. “All I wanted to
tell you is that I’m down here at the station every day to take a train
to the next town. I’m a nurse and I’m on a case over there right now.”

“I see,” Nancy said.

“Well, yesterday I was here when the Chicago train came in. I noticed a
tall, handsome man—such as you describe your father to be—step off the
train. He got into the taxi driven by a man named Harry. I have a
feeling that for some reason the cabbie isn’t telling the truth. Let’s
talk to him.”

Nancy followed the woman, her heart beating furiously. She was ready to
grab at any straw to get a clue to her father’s whereabouts!

“Hello, Miss Skade,” the taximan said. “How are you today?”

“Oh, I’m all right,” the nurse responded. “Listen, Harry. You told this
young lady that you didn’t carry any passenger yesterday that looked
like her father. Now I saw one get into your cab. What about it?”

Harry hung his head. “Listen, miss,” he said to Nancy. “I got three kids
and I don’t want nothin’ to happen to ’em. See?”

“What do you mean?” Nancy asked, puzzled.

When the man did not reply, Miss Skade said, “Now look, Harry. This
girl’s afraid that her father has been kidnaped. It’s up to you to tell
her all you know.”

“Kidnaped!” the taximan shouted. “Oh, good-night! Now I don’t know what
to do.”

Nancy had a sudden thought. “Has somebody been threatening you, Harry?”
she asked.

The cab driver’s eyes nearly popped from his head. “Well,” he said,
“since you’ve guessed it, I’d better tell you everything I know.”

He went on to say that he had taken a passenger who fitted Mr. Drew’s
description toward Twin Elms where he had said he wanted to go. “Just as
we were leaving the station, two other men came up and jumped into my
cab. They said they were going a little farther than that and would I
take them? Well, about halfway to Twin Elms, one of those men ordered me
to pull up to the side of the road and stop. He told me the stranger had
blacked out. He and his buddy jumped out of the car and laid the man on
the grass.”

“How ill was he?” Nancy asked.

“I don’t know. He was unconscious. Just then another car came along
behind us and stopped. The driver got out and offered to take your
father to a hospital. The two men said okay.”

Nancy took heart. Maybe her father was in a hospital and had not been
abducted at all! But a moment later her hopes were again dashed when
Harry said:

“I told those guys I’d be glad to drive the sick man to a hospital, but
one of them turned on me, shook his fist, and yelled, ‘You just forget
everything that’s happened or it’ll be too bad for you and your kids!’”

“Oh!” Nancy cried out, and for a second everything seemed to swing
before her eyes. She clutched the door handle of the taxi for support.

There was no question now but that her father had been drugged, then
kidnaped!

Miss Skade grabbed Nancy. “Do you feel ill?” the nurse asked quickly.

“Oh, I’ll be all right,” Nancy replied. “This news has been a great
shock to me.”

“Is there any way I can help you?” the woman questioned. “I’d be very
happy to.”

“Thank you, but I guess not,” the young sleuth said. Smiling ruefully,
she added, “But I must get busy and do something about this.”

The nurse suggested that perhaps Mr. Drew was in one of the local
hospitals. She gave Nancy the names of the three in town.

“I’ll get in touch with them at once,” the young detective said. “You’ve
been most kind. And here comes your train, Miss Skade. Good-by and again
thanks a million for your help!”

Harry climbed out of his taxi and went to stand at the platform to
signal passengers for his cab. Nancy hurried after him, and before the
train came in, asked if he would please give her a description of the
two men who had been with her father.

“Well, both of them were dark and kind of athletic-looking. Not what I’d
call handsome. One of ’em had an upper tooth missing. And the other
fellow—his left ear was kind of crinkled, if you know what I mean.”

“I understand,” said Nancy. “I’ll give a description of the two men to
the police.”

She went back to the telephone booth and called each of the three
hospitals, asking if anyone by the name of Carson Drew had been admitted
or possibly a patient who was not conscious and had no identification.
Only Mercy Hospital had a patient who had been unconscious since the day
before. He was definitely not Mr. Drew—he was Chinese!

Sure now that her father was being held in some secret hiding place,
Nancy went at once to police headquarters and related the taximan’s
story.

Captain Rossland looked extremely concerned. “This is alarming, Miss
Drew,” he said, “but I feel sure we can trace that fellow with the
crinkly ear and we’ll make him tell us where your father is! I doubt,
though, that there is anything you can do. You’d better leave it to the
police.”

Nancy said nothing. She was reluctant to give up even trying to do
something, but she acquiesced.

“In the meantime,” said the officer, “I’d advise you to remain at Twin
Elms and concentrate on solving the mystery there. From what you tell me
about your father, I’m sure he’ll be able to get out of the difficulty
himself, even before the police find him.”

Aloud, Nancy promised to stay on call in case Captain Rossland might
need her. But in her own mind the young sleuth determined that if she
got any kind of a lead concerning her father, she was most certainly
going to follow it up.

Nancy left police headquarters and strolled up the street, deep in
thought. “Instead of things getting better, all my problems seem to be
getting worse. Maybe I’d better call Hannah.”

Since she had been a little girl, Nancy had found solace in talking to
Hannah Gruen. The housekeeper had always been able to give her such good
advice!

Nancy went into a drugstore and entered one of the telephone booths. She
called the Drew home in River Heights and was pleased when Mrs. Gruen
answered. The housekeeper was aghast to learn Nancy’s news but said she
thought Captain Rossland’s advice was sound.

“You’ve given the police the best leads in the world and I believe
that’s all you can do. But wait—” the housekeeper suddenly said. “If I
were you, Nancy, I’d call up those railroad lawyers and tell them
exactly what has happened. Your father’s disappearance is directly
concerned with that bridge project, I’m sure, and the lawyers may have
some ideas about where to find him.”

“That’s a wonderful suggestion, Hannah,” said Nancy. “I’ll call them
right away.”

But when the young detective phoned the railroad lawyers, she was
disappointed to learn that all the men were out to lunch and none of
them would return before two o’clock.

“Oh dear!” Nancy sighed. “Well, I guess I’d better get a snack while
waiting for them to come back.” But in her worried state she did not
feel like eating.

There was a food counter at the rear of the drugstore and Nancy made her
way to it. Perching on a high-backed stool, she read the menu over and
over. Nothing appealed to her. When the counterman asked her what she
wanted, Nancy said frankly she did not know—she was not very hungry.

“Then I recommend our split-pea soup,” he told her. “It’s homemade and
out of this world.”

Nancy smiled at him. “I’ll take your advice and try it.”

The hot soup was delicious. By the time she had finished it, Nancy’s
spirits had risen considerably.

“And how about some custard pie?” the counterman inquired. “It’s just
like Mother used to make.”

“All right,” Nancy answered, smiling at the solicitous young man. The
pie was ice cold and proved to be delicious. When Nancy finished eating
it, she glanced at her wrist watch. It was only one-thirty. Seeing a
rack of magazines, she decided to while away the time reading in her
car.

She purchased a magazine of detective stories, one of which proved to be
so intriguing that the half hour went by quickly. Promptly at two
o’clock Nancy returned to the phone booth and called the offices of the
railroad lawyers. The switchboard operator connected her with Mr.
Anthony Barradale and Nancy judged from his voice that he was fairly
young. Quickly she told her story.

“Mr. Drew being held a prisoner!” Mr. Barradale cried out. “Well, those
underhanded property owners are certainly going to great lengths to gain
a few dollars.”

“The police are working on the case, but I thought perhaps your firm
would like to take a hand also,” Nancy told the lawyer.

“We certainly will,” the young man replied. “I’ll speak to our senior
partner about it. I know he will want to start work at once on the
case.”

“Thank you,” said Nancy. She gave the address and telephone number of
Twin Elms and asked that the lawyers get in touch with her there if any
news should break.

“We’ll do that,” Mr. Barradale promised.

Nancy left the drugstore and walked back to her car. Climbing in, she
wondered what her next move ought to be.

“One thing is sure,” she thought. “Work is the best antidote for worry.
I’ll get back to Twin Elms and do some more sleuthing there.”

As she drove along, Nancy reflected about the ghost entering Twin Elms
mansion by a subterranean passage. Since she had found no sign of one in
any of the outbuildings on the estate, it occurred to her that possibly
it led from an obscure cave, either natural or man-made. Such a device
would be a clever artifice for an architect to use.

Taking a little-used road that ran along one side of the estate, Nancy
recalled having seen a long, grassed-over hillock which she had assumed
to be an old aqueduct. Perhaps this was actually the hidden entrance to
Twin Elms!

She parked her car at the side of the road and took a flashlight from
the glove compartment. In anticipation of finding the answer to the
riddle, Nancy crossed the field, and as she came closer to the beginning
of the huge mound, she could see stones piled up. Getting nearer, she
realized that it was indeed the entrance to a rocky cave.

“Well, maybe this time I’ve found it!” she thought, hurrying forward.

The wind was blowing strongly and tossed her hair about her face.
Suddenly a freakish gust swept a newspaper from among the rocks and
scattered the pages helter-skelter.

Nancy was more excited than ever. The newspaper meant a human being had
been there not too long ago! The front page sailed toward her. As she
grabbed it up, she saw to her complete astonishment that the paper was a
copy of the _River Heights Gazette_. The date was the Tuesday before.

“Someone interested in River Heights has been here very recently!” the
young sleuth said to herself excitedly.

Who was the person? Her father? Gomber? Who?

Wondering if the paper might contain any clue, Nancy dashed around to
pick up all the sheets. As she spread them out on the ground, she
noticed a hole in the page where classified ads appeared.

“This may be a very good clue!” Nancy thought. “As soon as I get back to
the house, I’ll call Hannah and have her look up Tuesday’s paper to see
what was in that ad.”

It suddenly occurred to Nancy that the person who had brought the paper
to the cave might be inside at this very moment. She must watch her
step; he might prove to be an enemy!

“This may be where Dad is being held a prisoner!” Nancy thought wildly.

Flashlight in hand, and her eyes darting intently about, Nancy proceeded
cautiously into the cave. Five feet, ten. She saw no one. Fifteen more.
Twenty. Then Nancy met a dead end. The empty cave was almost completely
round and had no other opening.

“Oh dear, another failure,” Nancy told herself disappointedly, as she
retraced her steps. “My only hope now is to learn something important
from the ad in the paper.”

Nancy walked back across the field. Her eyes were down, as she
automatically looked for footprints. But presently she looked up and
stared in disbelief.

A man was standing alongside her car, examining it. His back was half
turned toward Nancy, so she could not see his face very well. But he had
an athletic build and his left ear was definitely crinkly!

The stranger inspecting Nancy’s car must have heard her coming. Without
turning around, he dodged back of the automobile and started off across
the field in the opposite direction.

“He certainly acts suspiciously. He must be the man with the crinkly ear
who helped abduct my father!” Nancy thought excitedly.

Quickly she crossed the road and ran after him as fast as she could,
hoping to overtake him. But the man had had a good head start. Also, his
stride was longer than Nancy’s and he could cover more ground in the
same amount of time.

The far corner of the irregular-shaped field ended at the road on which
Riverview Manor stood. When Nancy reached the highway, she was just in
time to see the stranger leap into a parked car and drive off.

The young detective was exasperated. She had had only a glimpse of the
man’s profile. If only she could have seen him full face or caught the
license number of his car!

“I wonder if he’s the one who dropped the newspaper?” she asked herself.
“Maybe he’s from River Heights!” She surmised that the man himself was
not one of the property owners but he might have been hired by Willie
Wharton or one of the owners to help abduct Mr. Drew.

“I’d better hurry to a phone and report this,” Nancy thought.

She ran all the way back across the field, stepped into her own car,
turned it around, and headed for Twin Elms. When Nancy arrived, she sped
to the telephone in the hall and dialed Cliffwood Police Headquarters.
In a moment she was talking to the captain and gave him her latest
information.

“It certainly looks as if you picked up a good clue, Miss Drew,” the
officer remarked. “I’ll send out an alarm immediately to have this man
picked up.”

“I suppose there is no news of my father,” Nancy said.

“I’m afraid not. But a couple of our men talked to the taxi driver Harry
and he gave us a pretty good description of the man who came along the
road while your father was lying unconscious on the grass—the one who
offered to take him to the hospital.”

“What did he look like?” Nancy asked.

The officer described the man as being in his early fifties, short, and
rather heavy-set. He had shifty pale-blue eyes.

“Well,” Nancy replied, “I can think of several men who would fit that
description. Did he have any outstanding characteristics?”

“Harry didn’t notice anything, except that the fellow’s hands didn’t
look as if he did any kind of physical work. The taximan said they were
kind of soft and pudgy.”

“Well, that eliminates all the men I know who are short, heavy-set and
have pale-blue eyes. None of them has hands like that.”

“It’ll be a good identifying feature,” the police officer remarked.
“Well, I guess I’d better get that alarm out.”

Nancy said good-by and put down the phone. She waited several seconds
for the line to clear, then picked up the instrument again and called
Hannah Gruen. Before Nancy lay the sheet of newspaper from which the
advertisement had been torn.

“The Drew residence,” said a voice on the phone.

“Hello, Hannah. This is Nancy.”

“How are you, dear? Any news?” Mrs. Gruen asked quickly.

“I haven’t found Dad yet,” the young detective replied. “And the police
haven’t either. But I’ve picked up a couple of clues.”

“Tell me about them,” the housekeeper requested excitedly.

Nancy told her about the man with the crinkly ear and said she was sure
that the police would soon capture him. “If he’ll only talk, we may find
out where Dad is being held.”

“Oh, I hope so!” Hannah sighed. “Don’t get discouraged, Nancy.”

At this point Helen came into the hall, and as she passed Nancy on her
way to the stairs, smiled at her friend. The young sleuth was about to
ask Hannah to get the Drews’ Tuesday copy of the _River Heights Gazette_
when she heard a cracking noise overhead. Immediately she decided the
ghost might be at work again.

“Hannah, I’ll call you back later,” Nancy said and put down the phone.

She had no sooner done this than Helen screamed, “Nancy, run! The
ceiling!” She herself started for the front door.

Nancy, looking up, saw a tremendous crack in the ceiling just above the
girls’ heads. The next instant the whole ceiling crashed down on them!
They were thrown to the floor.

“Oh!” Helen moaned. She was covered with lath and plaster, and had been
hit hard on the head. But she managed to call out from under the debris,
“Nancy, are you all right?” There was no answer.

The tremendous noise had brought Miss Flora and Aunt Rosemary on a run
from the kitchen. They stared in horror at the scene before them. Nancy
lay unconscious and Helen seemed too dazed to move.

“Oh my! Oh my!” Miss Flora exclaimed.

She and Aunt Rosemary began stepping over the lath and plaster, which by
now had filled the air with dust. They sneezed again and again but made
their way forward nevertheless.

[Illustration: The whole ceiling crashed down on them!]

Miss Flora, reaching Helen’s side, started pulling aside chunks of
broken plaster and lath. Finally, she helped her great-granddaughter to
her feet.

“Oh, my dear, you’re hurt!” she said solicitously.

“I’ll—be—all right—in a minute,” Helen insisted, choking with the
dust. “But Nancy—”

Aunt Rosemary had already reached the unconscious girl. With lightning
speed, she threw aside the debris which almost covered Nancy. Whipping a
handkerchief from her pocket, she gently laid it over Nancy’s face, so
that she would not breathe in any more of the dust.

“Helen, do you feel strong enough to help me carry Nancy into the
library?” she asked. “I’d like to lay her on the couch there.”

“Oh, yes, Aunt Rosemary. Do you think Nancy is badly hurt?” she asked
worriedly.

“I hope not.”

At this moment Nancy stirred. Then her arm moved upward and she pulled
the handkerchief from her face. She blinked several times as if unable
to recall where she was.

“You’ll be all right, Nancy,” said Aunt Rosemary kindly. “But I don’t
want you to breathe this dust. Please keep the handkerchief over your
nose.” She took it from Nancy’s hand and once more laid it across the
girl’s nostrils and mouth.

In a moment Nancy smiled wanly. “I remember now. The ceiling fell down.”

“Yes,” said Helen. “It knocked you out for a few moments. I hope you’re
not hurt.”

Miss Flora, who was still sneezing violently, insisted that they all get
out of the dust at once. She began stepping across the piles of debris,
with Helen helping her. When they reached the library door, the elderly
woman went inside.

Helen returned to help Nancy. But by this time her friend was standing
up, leaning on Aunt Rosemary’s arm. She was able to make her way across
the hall to the library. Aunt Rosemary suggested calling a doctor, but
Nancy said this would not be necessary.

“I’m so thankful you girls weren’t seriously hurt,” Miss Flora said.
“What a dreadful thing this is! Do you suppose the ghost is
responsible?”

Her daughter replied at once. “No, I don’t. Mother, you will recall that
for some time we have had a leak in the hall whenever it rained. And the
last time we had a storm, the whole ceiling was soaked. I think that
weakened the plaster and it fell of its own accord.”

Miss Flora remarked that a new ceiling would be a heavy expense for
them. “Oh dear, more troubles all the time. But I still don’t want to
part with my home.”

Nancy, whose faculties by now were completely restored, said with a hint
of a smile, “Well, there’s one worry you might not have any more, Miss
Flora.”

“What’s that?”

“Mr. Gomber,” said Nancy, “may not be so interested in buying this
property when he sees what happened.”

“Oh, I don’t know,” Aunt Rosemary spoke up. “He’s pretty persistent.”

Nancy said she felt all right now and suggested that she and Helen start
cleaning up the hall.

Miss Flora would not hear of this. “Rosemary and I are going to help,”
she said determinedly.

Cartons were brought from the cellar and one after the other was filled
with debris. After it had all been carried outdoors, mops and dust
cloths were brought into use. Within an hour all the gritty plaster dust
had been removed.

The weary workers had just finished their job when the telephone rang.
Nancy, being closest to the instrument, answered it. Hannah Gruen was
calling.

“Nancy! What happened?” she asked. “I’ve been waiting over an hour for
you to call me back. What’s the matter?”

Nancy gave her all the details.

“What’s going to happen to you next?” the housekeeper exclaimed.

The young sleuth laughed. “Something good, I hope.”

She asked Hannah to look for her copy of the _River Heights Gazette_ of
the Tuesday before. In a few minutes the housekeeper brought it to the
phone and Nancy asked her to turn to page fourteen. “That has the
classified ads,” she said. “Now tell me what the ad is right in the
center of the page.”

“Do you mean the one about used cars?”

“That must be it,” Nancy replied. “That’s not in my paper.”

Hannah Gruen said it was an ad for Aken’s, a used-car dealer. “He’s at
24 Main Street in Hancock.”

“And now turn the page and tell me what ad is on the back of it,” Nancy
requested.

“It’s a story about a school picnic,” Hannah told her. “Does either one
of them help you?”

“Yes, Hannah, I believe you’ve given me just the information I wanted.
This may prove to be valuable. Thanks a lot.”

After Nancy had finished the call, she started to dial police
headquarters, then changed her mind. The ghost might be hiding somewhere
in the house to listen—or if he had installed microphones at various
points, any conversations could be picked up and recorded on a machine a
distance away.

“It would be wiser for me to discuss the whole matter in person with the
police, I’m sure,” Nancy decided.

Divulging her destination only to Helen, she told the others she was
going to drive downtown but would not be gone long.

“You’re sure you feel able?” Aunt Rosemary asked her.

“I’m perfectly fine,” Nancy insisted.

She set off in the convertible, hopeful that through the clue of the
used-car dealer, the police might be able to pick up the name of one of
the suspects.

“They can track him down and through the man locate my father!”

“Excellent!” Captain Rossland said after Nancy had told her story. He
smiled. “The way you’re building up clues, if you were on my force, I’d
recommend a citation for you!”

The young sleuth smiled and thanked him. “I must find my father,” she
said earnestly.

“I’ll call Captain McGinnis of the River Heights force at once,” the
officer told her. “Why don’t you sit down here and wait? It shouldn’t
take long for them to get information from Aken’s used-car lot.”

Nancy agreed and took a chair in a corner of the captain’s office.
Presently he called to her.

“I have your answer, Miss Drew.”

She jumped up and went over to his desk. The officer told her that
Captain McGinnis in River Heights had been most co-operative. He had
sent two men at once to Aken’s used-car lot. They had just returned with
a report.

“Day before yesterday an athletic-looking man with a crinkly ear came
there and purchased a car. He showed a driver’s license stating that he
was Samuel Greenman from Huntsville.”

Nancy was excited over the information. “Then it will be easy to pick
him up, won’t it?” she asked.

“I’m afraid not,” Captain Rossland replied. “McGinnis learned from the
Huntsville police that although Greenman is supposed to live at the
address he gave, he is reported to have been out of town for some time.”

“Then no one knows where he is?”

“Not any of his neighbors.”

The officer also reported that Samuel Greenman was a person of
questionable character. He was wanted on a couple of robbery charges,
and police in several states had been alerted to be on the lookout for
him.

“Well, if the man I saw at my car is Samuel Greenman, then maybe he’s
hiding in this area.”

Captain Rossland smiled. “Are you going to suggest next that he is the
ghost at Twin Elms?”

“Who knows?” Nancy countered.

“In any case,” Captain Rossland said, “your idea that he may be hiding
out around here is a good one.”

Nancy was about to ask the officer another question when his phone rang.
A moment later he said, “It’s for you, Miss Drew.”

The girl detective picked up the receiver and said, “Hello.” The caller
was Helen Corning and her voice sounded frantic.

“Oh, Nancy, something dreadful has happened here! You must come home at
once!”

“What is it?” Nancy cried out, but Helen had already put down the
instrument at her end.

Nancy told Captain Rossland of the urgent request and said she must
leave at once.

“Let me know if you need the police,” the officer called after her.

“Thank you, I will.”

Nancy drove to Twin Elms as fast as the law allowed. As she pulled up in
front of the house, she was startled to see a doctor’s car there.
Someone had been taken ill!

Helen met her friend at the front door. “Nancy,” she said in a whisper,
“Miss Flora may have had a heart attack!”

“How terrible!” Nancy said, shocked. “Tell me all about it.”

“Dr. Morrison wants Miss Flora to go to the hospital right away, but she
refuses. She says she won’t leave here.”

Helen said that the physician was still upstairs attending her
great-grandmother.

“When did she become ill?” Nancy asked. “Did something in particular
bring on the attack?”

Helen nodded. “Yes. It was very frightening. Miss Flora, Aunt Rosemary,
and I were in the kitchen talking about supper. They wanted to have a
special dish to surprise you, because they knew you were dreadfully
upset.”

“That was sweet of them,” Nancy remarked. “Please go on, Helen.”

“Miss Flora became rather tired and Aunt Rosemary suggested that she go
upstairs and lie down. She had just started up the stairway, when, for
some unknown reason, she turned to look back. There, in the parlor,
stood a man!”

“A caller?” Nancy questioned.

“Oh, no!” Helen replied. “Miss Flora said he was an ugly,
horrible-looking person. He was unshaven and his hair was kind of long.”

“Do you think he was the ghost?” Nancy inquired.

“Miss Flora thought so. Well, she didn’t scream. You know, she’s really
terribly brave. She just decided to go down and meet him herself. And
then, what do you think?”

“I could guess any number of things,” Nancy replied. “What did happen?”

Helen said that when Mrs. Turnbull had reached the parlor, no one was in
it! “And there was no secret door open.”

“What did Miss Flora do then?” Nancy asked.

“She fainted.”

At this moment a tall, slender, gray-haired man, carrying a physician’s
bag, walked down the stairs to the front hall. Helen introduced Nancy to
him, then asked about the patient.

“Well, fortunately, Miss Flora is going to be all right,” said Dr.
Morrison. “She is an amazing woman. With complete rest and nothing more
to worry her, I believe she will be all right. In fact, she may be able
to be up for short periods by this time tomorrow.”

“Oh, I’m so relieved,” said Helen. “I’m terribly fond of my
great-grandmother and I don’t want anything to happen to her.”

The physician smiled. “I’ll do all I can, but you people will have to
help.”

“How can we do that?” Nancy asked quickly.

The physician said that no one was to talk about the ghost. “Miss Flora
says that she saw a man in the parlor and that he must have come in by
some secret entrance. Now you know, as well as I do, that such a thing
is not plausible.”

“But the man couldn’t have entered this house any other way,” Helen told
him quickly. “Every window and door on this first floor is kept locked.”

The doctor raised his eyebrows. “You’ve heard of hallucinations?” he
asked.

Nancy and Helen frowned, but remained silent. They were sure that Miss
Flora had not had an hallucination. If she had said there was a man in
the parlor, then one had been there!

“Call me if you need me before tomorrow morning,” the doctor said as he
moved toward the front door. “Otherwise I’ll drop in some time before
twelve.”

After the medic had left, the two girls exchanged glances. Nancy said,
“Are you game to search the parlor again?”

“You bet I am,” Helen responded. “Shall we start now or wait until after
supper?”

Although Nancy was eager to begin at once, she thought that first she
should go upstairs and extend her sympathy to Miss Flora. She also felt
that a delay in serving her supper while the search went on might upset
the ill woman. Helen offered to go into the kitchen at once and start
preparing the meal. Nancy nodded and went up the steps.

Miss Flora had been put to bed in her daughter’s room to avoid any
further scares from the ghost, who seemed to operate in the elderly
woman’s own room.

“Miss Flora, I’m so sorry you have to stay in bed,” said Nancy, walking
up and smiling at the patient.

“Well, I am too,” Mrs. Turnbull replied. “And I think it’s a lot of
nonsense. Everybody faints once in a while. If you’d ever seen what I
did—that horrible face!”

“Mother!” pleaded Aunt Rosemary, who was seated in a chair on the other
side of the bed. “You know what the doctor said.”

“Oh, these doctors!” her mother said pettishly. “Anyway, Nancy, I’m sure
I saw the ghost. Now you just look for a man who hasn’t shaved in
goodness knows how long and has an ugly face and kind of longish hair.”

It was on the tip of Nancy’s tongue to ask for information on the man’s
height and size, but recalling the doctor’s warning, she said nothing
about this. Instead, she smiled and taking one of Miss Flora’s hands in
her own, said:

“Let’s not talk any more about this until you’re up and well. Then I’ll
put you on the Drew and Company detective squad!”

The amusing remark made the elderly woman smile and she promised to try
getting some rest.

“But first I want something to eat,” she demanded. “Do you think you
girls can manage alone? I’d like Rosemary to stay here with me.”

“Of course we can manage, and we’ll bring you exactly what you should
have to eat.”

Nancy went downstairs and set up a tray for Miss Flora. On it was a cup
of steaming chicken bouillon, a thin slice of well-toasted bread, and a
saucer of plain gelatin.

A few minutes later Helen took another tray upstairs with a more
substantial meal on it for Aunt Rosemary. Then the two girls sat down in
the dining room to have their own supper. After finishing it, they
quickly washed and dried all the dishes, then started for the parlor.

“Where do you think we should look?” Helen whispered.

During the past half hour Nancy had been going over in her mind what
spot in the parlor they might have overlooked—one which could possibly
have an opening behind it. She had decided on a large cabinet built into
the wall. It contained a beautiful collection of figurines, souvenirs
from many places, and knickknacks of various kinds.

“I’m going to look for a hidden spring that may move the cabinet away
from the wall,” Nancy told Helen in a low voice.

For the first time she noticed that each of the figurines and
knickknacks were set in small depressions on the shelves. Nancy wondered
excitedly if this had been done so that the figurines would not fall
over in case the cabinet were moved.

Eagerly she began to look on the back wall of the interior of the
cabinet for a spring. She and Helen together searched every inch of the
upper part but found no spring to move the great built-in piece of
furniture.

On the lower part of the cabinet were two doors which Nancy had already
opened many times. But then she had been looking for a large opening.
Now she was hoping to locate a tiny spring or movable panel.

Helen searched the left side, while Nancy took the right. Suddenly her
pulse quickened in anticipation. She had felt a spot slightly higher
than the rest.

Nancy ran her fingers back and forth across the area which was about
half an inch high and three inches long.

“It may conceal something,” she thought, and pushed gently against the
wood.

Nancy felt a vibration in the whole cabinet.

“Helen! I’ve found something!” she whispered hoarsely. “Better stand
back!”

Nancy pressed harder. This time the right side of the cabinet began to
move forward. Nancy jumped up from her knees and stood back with Helen.
Slowly, very slowly, one end of the cabinet began to move into the
parlor, the other into an open space behind it.

Helen grabbed Nancy’s hand in fright. What were they going to find in
the secret passageway?

The great crystal chandelier illuminated the narrow passageway behind
the cabinet. It was not very long. No one was in it and the place was
dusty and filled with cobwebs.

“There’s probably an exit at the other end of this,” said Nancy. “Let’s
see where it goes.”

“I think I’d better wait here, Nancy,” Helen suggested. “This old
cabinet might suddenly start to close itself. If it does, I’ll yell so
you can get out in time.”

Nancy laughed. “You’re a real pal, Helen.”

As Nancy walked along the passageway, she looked carefully at the two
walls which lined it. There was no visible exit from either of the
solid, plastered walls. The far end, too, was solid, but this wall had
been built of wood.

Nancy felt it might have some significance. At the moment she could not
figure it out and started to return to the parlor. Halfway along the
narrow corridor, she saw a folded piece of paper lying on the floor.

“This may prove something,” she told herself eagerly, picking it up.

Just as Nancy stepped back into the parlor, Aunt Rosemary appeared. She
stared in astonishment at the opening in the wall and at the cabinet
which now stood at right angles to it.

“You found something?” she asked.

“Only this,” Nancy replied, and handed Aunt Rosemary the folded paper.

As the girls looked over her shoulder, Mrs. Hayes opened it. “This is an
unfinished letter,” she commented, then started to decipher the
old-fashioned handwriting. “Why, this was written way back in 1785—not
long after the house was built.”

The note read:

    _My honorable friend Benjamin:_

    _The disloyalty of two of my servants has just come to my
    attention. I am afraid they plan to harm the cause of the
    Colonies. I will have them properly punished. My good fortune in
    learning about this disloyalty came while I was at my listening
    post. Every word spoken in the servants’ sitting room can be
    overheard by me._

    _I will watch for further—_

The letter ended at this point. Instantly Helen said, “Listening post?”

“It must be at the end of this passageway,” Nancy guessed. “Aunt
Rosemary, what room would connect with it?”

“I presume the kitchen,” Mrs. Hayes replied. “And it seems to me that I
once heard that the present kitchen was a sitting room for the servants
long ago. You recall that back in Colonial days food was never cooked in
a mansion. It was always prepared in another building and brought in on
great trays.”

Helen smiled. “With a listening post the poor servants here didn’t have
a chance for a good chitchat together. Their conversations were never a
secret from their master!”

Nancy and Aunt Rosemary smiled too and nodded, then the young sleuth
said, “Let’s see if this listening post still works.”

It was arranged that Helen would go into the kitchen and start talking.
Nancy would stand at the end of the corridor to listen. Aunt Rosemary,
who was shown how to work the hidden spring on the cabinet, would act as
guard if the great piece of furniture suddenly started to move and close
the opening.

“All ready?” Helen asked. She moved out of the room.

When she thought Nancy was at her post, she began to talk about her
forthcoming wedding and asked Nancy to be in the bridal party.

“I can hear Helen very plainly!” Nancy called excitedly to Aunt
Rosemary. “The listening post is as good as ever!”

When the test was over, and the cabinet manually closed by Nancy, she
and Helen and Aunt Rosemary held a whispered conversation. They all
decided that the ghost knew about the passageway and had overheard plans
which those in the house were making. Probably this was where the ghost
disappeared after Miss Flora spotted him.

“Funny that we seem to do more planning while we’re in the kitchen than
in any other room,” Aunt Rosemary remarked.

Helen said she wondered if this listening post was unique with the owner
and architect of Twin Elms mansion.

“No, indeed,” Aunt Rosemary told her. “Many old homes where there were
servants had such places. Don’t forget that our country has been
involved in several wars, during which traitors and spies found it easy
to get information while posing as servants.”

“Very clever,” Helen remarked. “And I suppose a lot of the people who
were caught never knew how they had been found out.”

“No doubt,” said Aunt Rosemary.

At that moment they heard Miss Flora’s feeble voice calling from the
bedroom and hurried up the steps to be sure that she was all right. They
found her smiling, but she complained that she did not like to stay
alone so long.

“I won’t leave you again tonight, Mother,” Aunt Rosemary promised. “I’m
going to sleep on the couch in this room so as not to disturb you. Now
try to get a little sleep.”

The following morning Nancy had a phone call from Hannah Gruen, whose
voice sounded very irate. “I’ve just heard from Mr. Barradale, the
railroad lawyer, Nancy. He lost your address and phone number, so he
called here. I’m furious at what he had to say. He hinted that your
father might be staying away on purpose because he wasn’t able to
produce Willie Wharton!”

Nancy was angry too. “Why, that’s absolutely unfair and untrue,” she
cried.

“Well, I just wouldn’t stand for it if I were you,” Hannah Gruen stated
flatly. “And that’s only half of it.”

“You mean he had more to say about Dad?” Nancy questioned quickly.

“No, not that,” the housekeeper answered. “He was calling to say that
the railroad can’t hold up the bridge project any longer. If some new
evidence isn’t produced by Monday, the railroad will be forced to accede
to the demands of Willie Wharton and all those other property owners!”

“Oh, that would be a great blow to Dad!” said Nancy. “He wouldn’t want
this to happen. He’s sure that the signature on that contract of sale is
Willie Wharton’s. All he has to do is find him and prove it.”

“Everything is such a mess,” said Mrs. Gruen. “I was talking to the
police just before I called you and they have no leads at all to where
your father might be.”

“Hannah, this is dreadful!” said Nancy. “I don’t know how, but I intend
to find Dad—and quickly, too!”

After the conversation between herself and the housekeeper was over,
Nancy walked up and down the hall, as she tried to formulate a plan.
Something must be done!

Suddenly Nancy went to the front door, opened it, and walked outside.
She breathed deeply of the lovely morning air and headed for the rose
garden. She let the full beauty of the estate sink into her
consciousness, before permitting herself to think further about the
knotty problem before her.

Long ago Mr. Drew had taught Nancy that the best way to clear one’s
brain is to commune with Nature for a time. Nancy went up one walk and
down another, listening to the twittering of the birds and now and then
the song of the meadow lark. Again she smelled deeply of the roses and
the sweet wisteria which hung over a sagging arbor.

Ten minutes later she returned to the house and sat down on the porch
steps. Almost at once a mental image of Nathan Gomber came to her as
clearly as if the man had been standing in front of her. The young
sleuth’s mind began to put together the various pieces of the puzzle
regarding him and the railroad property.

“Maybe Nathan Gomber is keeping Willie Wharton away!” she said to
herself. “Willie may even be a prisoner! And if Gomber is that kind of a
person, maybe he engineered the abduction of my father!”

The very thought frightened Nancy. Leaping up, she decided to ask the
police to have Nathan Gomber shadowed.

“I’ll go down to headquarters and talk to Captain Rossland,” she
decided. “And I’ll ask Helen to go along. The cleaning woman is here, so
she can help Aunt Rosemary in case of an emergency.”

Without explaining her real purpose in wanting to go downtown, Nancy
merely asked Helen to accompany her there for some necessary marketing.
The two girls drove off, and on the way to town Nancy gave Helen full
details of her latest theories about Nathan Gomber.

Helen was amazed. “And here he was acting so worried about your father’s
safety!”

When the girls reached police headquarters, they had to wait a few
minutes to see Captain Rossland. Nancy fidgeted under the delay. Every
moment seemed doubly precious now. But finally the girls were ushered
inside and the officer greeted them warmly.

“Another clue, Miss Drew?” he asked with a smile.

Nancy told her story quickly.

“I think you’re on the right track,” the officer stated. “I’ll be very
glad to get in touch with your Captain McGinnis in River Heights and
relay your message. And I’ll notify all the men on my force to be on the
lookout for this Nathan Gomber.”

“Thank you,” said Nancy gratefully. “Every hour that goes by I become
more and more worried about my father.”

“A break should come soon,” the officer told her kindly. “The minute I
hear anything I’ll let you know.”

Nancy thanked him and the girls went on their way. It took every bit of
Nancy’s stamina not to show her inmost feelings. She rolled the cart
through the supermarket almost automatically, picking out needed food
items. Her mind would say, “We need more canned peas because the ghost
took what we had,” and at the meat counter she reflected, “Dad loves
thick, juicy steaks.”

Finally the marketing was finished and the packages stowed in the rear
of the convertible. On the way home, Helen asked Nancy what plans she
had for pursuing the mystery.

“To tell the truth, I’ve been thinking about it continuously, but so far
I haven’t come up with any new ideas,” Nancy answered. “I’m sure,
though, that something will pop up.”

When the girls were a little distance from the entrance to the Twin Elms
estate, they saw a car suddenly pull out of the driveway and make a
right turn. The driver leaned out his window and looked back. He wore a
smug grin.

“Why, it’s Nathan Gomber!” Nancy cried out.

“And did you see that smirk on his face?” Helen asked. “Oh, Nancy, maybe
that means he’s finally persuaded Miss Flora to sell the property to
him!”

“Yes,” Nancy replied grimly. “And also, here I’ve just asked the police
to shadow him and I’m the first person to see him!”

With that Nancy put on speed and shot ahead. As she passed the driveway
to the estate, Helen asked, “Where are you going?”

“I’m following Nathan Gomber until I catch him!”

“Oh, Nancy, I hope we meet a police officer!” said Helen Corning. “If
Gomber is a kidnaper, he may try to harm us if we do catch up to him!”

“We’ll have to be cautious,” Nancy admitted. “But I’m afraid we’re not
going to meet any policeman. I haven’t seen one on these roads in all
the time I’ve been here.”

Both girls watched the car ahead of them intently. It was near enough
for Nancy to be able to read the license number. She wondered if the car
was registered under Gomber’s name or someone else’s. If it belonged to
a friend of his, this fact might lead the police to another suspect.

“Where do you think Gomber’s going?” Helen asked presently. “To meet
somebody?”

“Perhaps. And he may be on his way back to River Heights.”

“Not yet,” Helen said, for at that moment Gomber had reached a
crossroads and turned sharp right. “That road leads away from River
Heights.”

“But it does lead past Riverview Manor,” Nancy replied tensely as she
neared the crossroads.

Turning right, the girls saw Gomber ahead, tearing along at a terrific
speed. He passed the vacant mansion. A short distance beyond it he began
to turn his car lights off and on.

“What’s he doing that for?” Helen queried. “Is he just testing his
lights?”

Nancy was not inclined to think so. “I believe he’s signaling to
someone. Look all around, Helen, and see if you can spot anybody.” She
herself was driving so fast that she did not dare take her eyes from the
road.

Helen gazed right and left, and then turned to gaze through the back
window. “I don’t see a soul,” she reported.

Nancy began to feel uneasy. It was possible that Gomber might have been
signaling to someone to follow the girls. “Helen, keep looking out the
rear window and see if a car appears and starts to follow us.”

“Maybe we ought to give up the chase and just tell the police about
Gomber,” Helen said a bit fearfully.

But Nancy did not want to do this. “I think it will help us a lot to
know where he’s heading.”

She continued the pursuit and several miles farther on came to the town
of Hancock.

“Isn’t this where that crinkly-eared fellow lives?” Helen inquired.

“Yes.”

“Then it’s my guess Gomber is going to see him.”

Nancy reminded her friend that the man was reported to be out of town,
presumably because he was wanted by the police on a couple of robbery
charges.

Though Hancock was small, there was a great deal of traffic on the main
street. In the center of town at an intersection, there was a signal
light. Gomber shot through the green, but by the time Nancy reached the
spot, the light had turned red.

“Oh dear!” she fumed. “Now I’ll probably lose him!”

In a few seconds the light changed to green and Nancy again took up her
pursuit. But she felt that at this point it was futile. Gomber could
have turned down any of a number of side streets, or if he had gone
straight through the town he would now be so far ahead of her that it
was doubtful she could catch him. Nancy went on, nevertheless, for
another three miles. Then, catching no sight of her quarry, she decided
to give up the chase.

“I guess it’s hopeless, Helen,” she said. “I’m going back to Hancock and
report everything to the police there. I’ll ask them to get in touch
with Captain Rossland and Captain McGinnis.”

“Oh, I hope they capture Gomber!” Helen said. “He’s such a horrible man!
He ought to be put in jail just for his bad manners!”

Smiling, Nancy turned the car and headed back for Hancock. A woman
passer-by gave her directions to police headquarters and a few moments
later Nancy parked in front of it. The girls went inside the building.
Nancy told the officer in charge who they were, then gave him full
details of the recent chase.

The officer listened attentively, then said, “I’ll telephone your River
Heights captain first.”

“And please alert your own men and the State Police,” Nancy requested.

He nodded. “Don’t worry, Miss Drew, I’ll follow through from here.” He
picked up his phone.

Helen urged Nancy to leave immediately. “While you were talking, I kept
thinking about Gomber’s visit to Twin Elms. I have a feeling something
may have happened there. You remember what a self-satisfied look Gomber
had on his face when we saw him come out of the driveway.”

“You’re right,” Nancy agreed. “We’d better hurry back there.”

It was a long drive back to Twin Elms and the closer the girls got to
it, the more worried they became. “Miss Flora was already ill,” Helen
said tensely, “and Gomber’s visit may have made her worse.”

On reaching the house, the front door was opened by Aunt Rosemary, who
looked pale.

“I’m so glad you’ve returned,” she said. “My mother is much worse. She
has had a bad shock. I’m waiting for Dr. Morrison.”

Mrs. Hayes’ voice was trembling and she found it hard to go on. Nancy
said sympathetically, “We know Nathan Gomber was here. We’ve been
chasing his car, but lost it. Did he upset Miss Flora?”

“Yes. I was out of the house about twenty minutes talking with the
gardener and didn’t happen to see Gomber drive up. The cleaning woman,
Lillie, let him in. Of course she didn’t know who he was and thought he
was all right. When she finally came outside to tell me, I had walked
way over to the wisteria arbor at the far end of the grounds.

“In the meantime, Gomber went upstairs. He began talking to Mother about
selling the mansion. When she refused, he threatened her, saying that if
she did not sign, all kinds of dreadful things would happen to me and to
both you girls.

“Poor Mother couldn’t hold out any longer. At this moment Lillie, who
couldn’t find me, returned and went upstairs. She actually witnessed
Mother’s signature on the contract of sale and signed her own name to
it. So Gomber has won!”

Aunt Rosemary sank into the chair by the telephone and began to cry.
Nancy and Helen put their arms around her, but before either could say a
word of comfort, they heard a car drive up in front of the mansion. At
once Mrs. Hayes dried her eyes and said, “It must be Dr. Morrison.”

Nancy opened the door and admitted the physician. The whole group went
upstairs where Miss Flora lay staring at the ceiling like someone in a
trance. She was murmuring:

“I shouldn’t have signed! I shouldn’t have sold Twin Elms!”

Dr. Morrison took the patient’s pulse and listened to her heartbeat with
a stethoscope. A few moments later he said, “Mrs. Turnbull, won’t you
please let me take you to the hospital?”

“Not yet,” said Miss Flora stubbornly. She smiled wanly. “I know I’m
ill. But I’m not going to get better any quicker in the hospital than I
am right here. I’ll be moving out of Twin Elms soon enough and I want to
stay here as long as I can. Oh, why did I ever sign my name to that
paper?”

As an expression of defeat came over the physician’s face, Nancy moved
to the bedside. “Miss Flora,” she said gently, “maybe the deal will
never go through. In the first place, perhaps we can prove that you
signed under coercion. If that doesn’t work, you know it takes a long
time to have a title search made on property. By then, maybe Gomber will
change his mind.”

“Oh, I hope you’re right,” the elderly woman replied, squeezing Nancy’s
hand affectionately.

The girls left the room, so that Dr. Morrison could examine the patient
further and prescribe for her. They decided to say nothing of their
morning’s adventure to Miss Flora, but at luncheon they gave Aunt
Rosemary a full account.

“I’m almost glad you didn’t catch Gomber,” Mrs. Hayes exclaimed. “He
might have harmed you both.” Nancy said she felt sure that the police of
one town or the other would soon capture him, and then perhaps many
things could be explained. “For one, we can find out why he was turning
his lights off and on. I have a hunch he was signaling to someone and
that the person was hidden in Riverview Manor!”

“You may be right,” Aunt Rosemary replied.

Helen suddenly leaned across the table. “Do you suppose our ghost thief
hides out there?”

“I think it’s very probable,” Nancy answered. “I’d like to do some
sleuthing in that old mansion.”

“You’re not going to break in?” Helen asked, horrified.

Her friend smiled. “No, Helen, I’m not going to evade the law. I’ll go
to the realtor who is handling the property and ask him to show me the
place. Want to come along?”

Helen shivered a little but said she was game. “Let’s do it this
afternoon.”

“Oh dear.” Aunt Rosemary gave an anxious sigh. “I don’t know whether or
not I should let you. It sounds very dangerous to me.”

“If the realtor is with us, we should be safe,” Helen spoke up. Her aunt
then gave her consent, and added that the realtor, Mr. Dodd, had an
office on Main Street.

Conversation ceased for a few moments as the threesome finished
luncheon. They had just left the table when they heard a loud thump
upstairs.

“Oh, goodness!” Aunt Rosemary cried out. “I hope Mother hasn’t fallen!”

She and the girls dashed up the stairs. Miss Flora was in bed, but she
was trembling like a leaf in the wind. She pointed a thin, white hand
toward the ceiling.

“It was up in the attic! Somebody’s there!”

“Let’s find out who’s in the attic!” Nancy urged as she ran from the
room, Helen at her heels.

“Mother, will you be all right if I leave you a few moments?” Aunt
Rosemary asked. “I’d like to go with the girls.”

“Of course. Run along.”

Nancy and Helen were already on their way to the third floor. They did
not bother to go noiselessly, but raced up the center of the creaking
stairs. Reaching the attic, they lighted two of the candles and looked
around. They saw no one, and began to look behind trunks and pieces of
furniture. Nobody was hiding.

“And there’s no evidence,” said Nancy, “that the alarming thump was
caused by a falling box or carton.”

“There’s only one answer,” Helen decided. “The ghost _was_ here. But how
did he get in?”

The words were scarcely out of her mouth when the group heard a man’s
spine-chilling laugh. It had not come from downstairs.

“He—he’s back of the wall!” Helen gasped fearfully. Nancy agreed, but
Aunt Rosemary said, “That laugh could have come from the roof.”

Helen looked at her aunt questioningly. “You—you mean that the ghost
swings onto the roof from a tree and climbs in here somehow?”

“I think it very likely,” her aunt replied. “My father once told my
mother that there’s a trap door to the roof. I never saw it and I forgot
having heard of it until this minute.”

Holding their candles high, the girls examined every inch of the peaked,
beamed ceiling. The rafters were set close together with wood panels
between them.

“I see something that might be a trap door!” Nancy called out presently
from near one end of the attic. She showed the others where some short
panels formed an almost perfect square.

“But how does it open?” Helen asked. “There’s no knob or hook or any
kind of gadget to grab hold of.”

“It might have been removed, or rusted off,” Nancy said.

She asked Helen to help her drag a high wooden box across the floor
until it was directly under the suspected section and Nancy stepped up
onto it. Focusing her light on the four edges of the panels, the young
sleuth finally discovered a piece of metal wedged between two of the
planks.

“I think I see a way to open this,” Nancy said, “but I’ll need some
tools.”

“I’ll get the ones I found before,” Helen offered.

She hurried downstairs and procured them. Nancy tried one tool after
another, but none would work; they were either too wide to fit into the
crack or they would not budge the piece of metal either up or down.

Nancy looked down at Aunt Rosemary. “Do you happen to have an
old-fashioned buttonhook?” she asked. “That might be just the thing for
this job.”

“Indeed I have—in fact, Mother has several of them. I’ll get one.”

Aunt Rosemary was gone only a few minutes. Upon her return, she handed
Nancy a long, silver-handled buttonhook inscribed with Mrs. Turnbull’s
initials. “Mother used this to fasten her high button shoes. She has a
smaller matching one for glove buttons. In olden days,” she told the
girls, “no lady’s gloves were the pull-on type. They all had buttons.”

Nancy inserted the long buttonhook into the ceiling crack and almost at
once was able to grasp the piece of metal and pull it down. Now she
began tugging on it. When nothing happened, Helen climbed up on the box
beside her friend and helped pull.

Presently there was a groaning, rasping noise and the square section of
the ceiling began to move downward. The girls continued to yank on the
metal piece and slowly a folded ladder attached to the wood became
visible.

“The trap door’s up there!” Helen cried gleefully, looking at the roof.
“Nancy, you shall have the honor of being the first one to look out.”

Nancy smiled. “And, you mean, capture the ghost?”

As the ladder was straightened out, creaking with each pull, and set
against the roof, Nancy felt sure, however, that the ghost did not use
it. The ladder made entirely too much noise! She also doubted that he
was on the roof, but it would do no harm to look. She might pick up a
clue of some sort!

“Well, here I go,” Nancy said, and started to ascend the rungs.

When she reached the top, Nancy unfastened the trap door and shoved it
upward. She poked her head outdoors and looked around. No one was in
sight on the roof, but in the center stood a circular wooden lookout. It
occurred to Nancy that possibly the ghost might be hiding in it!

She called down to Aunt Rosemary and Helen to look up at the attic
ceiling for evidence of an opening into the tower. They returned to
Nancy in half a minute to report that they could find no sign of another
trap door.

“There probably was one in olden days,” said Aunt Rosemary, “but it was
closed up.”

A sudden daring idea came to the girl detective. “I’m going to crawl
over to that lookout and see if anybody’s in it!” she told the two
below.

Before either of them could object, she started to crawl along the
ridgepole above the wooden shingled sides of the deeply slanting roof.
Helen had raced up the ladder, and now watched her friend fearfully.

“Be careful, Nancy!” she warned.

Nancy was doing just that. She must keep a perfect balance or tumble
down to almost certain death. Halfway to the tower, the daring girl
began to feel that she had been foolhardy, but she was determined to
reach her goal.

“Only five feet to go,” Nancy told herself presently.

With a sigh of relief, she reached the tower and pulled herself up. It
was circular and had openings on each side. She looked in. No “ghost”!

Nancy decided to step inside the opening and examine the floor. She set
one foot down, but immediately the boards, rotted from the weather, gave
way beneath her.

“It’s a good thing I didn’t put my whole weight on it,” she thought
thankfully.

“Do you see anything?” Helen called.

“Not a thing. This floor hasn’t been in use for a long time.”

“Then the ghost didn’t come in by way of the roof,” Helen stated.

Nancy nodded in agreement. “The only places left to look are the
chimneys,” the young sleuth told her friend. “I’ll check them.”

There were four of these and Nancy crawled to each one in turn. She
looked inside but found nothing to suggest that the ghost used any of
them for entry.

Balancing herself against the last chimney, Nancy surveyed the
countryside around her. What a beautiful and picturesque panorama it
was, she thought! Not far away was a lazy little river, whose waters
sparkled in the sunlight. The surrounding fields were green and
sprinkled with patches of white daisies.

Nancy looked down on the grounds of Twin Elms and tried in her mind to
reconstruct the original landscaping.

“That brick walk to the next property must have had a lovely boxwood
hedge at one time,” she said to herself.

[Illustration]

Her gaze now turned to Riverview Manor. The grounds there were overgrown
with weeds and several shutters were missing from the house. Suddenly
Nancy’s attention was drawn to one of the uncovered windowpanes. Did she
see a light moving inside?

It disappeared a moment later and Nancy could not be sure. Perhaps the
sun shining on the glass had created an optical illusion.

“Still, somebody just might be in that house,” the young sleuth thought.
“The sooner I get over there and see what I can find out, the better! If
the ghost is hiding out there, maybe he uses some underground passage
from one of the outbuildings on the property.”

She crawled cautiously back to the trap door and together the girls
closed it. Aunt Rosemary had already gone downstairs to take care of her
mother.

Nancy told Helen what she thought she had just seen in the neighboring
mansion. “I’ll change my clothes right away. Then let’s go see Mr. Dodd,
the realtor broker for Riverview Manor.”

A half hour later the two girls walked into the real-estate office. Mr.
Dodd himself was there and Nancy asked him about looking at Riverview
Manor.

“I’m sorry, miss,” he said, “but the house has just been sold.”

Nancy was stunned. She could see all her plans crumbling into
nothingness. Then a thought came to her. Perhaps the new owner would not
object if she looked around, anyway.

“Would you mind telling me, Mr. Dodd, who purchased Riverview Manor?”

“Not at all,” the realtor replied. “A man named Nathan Gomber.”

Nancy Drew’s face wore such a disappointed look that Mr. Dodd, the
realtor, said kindly, “Don’t take it so hard, miss. I don’t think you’d
be particularly interested in Riverview Manor. It’s really not in very
good condition. Besides, you’d need a pile of money to fix that place
up.”

Without commenting on his statement, Nancy asked, “Couldn’t you possibly
arrange for me to see inside of the mansion?”

Mr. Dodd shook his head. “I’m afraid Mr. Gomber wouldn’t like that.”

Nancy was reluctant to give up. Why, her father might even be a prisoner
in that very house! “Of course I can report my suspicion to the police,”
the young sleuth thought.

She decided to wait until morning. Then, if there was still no news of
Mr. Drew, she would pass along the word to Captain Rossland.

Mr. Dodd’s telephone rang. As he answered it, Nancy and Helen started to
leave his office. But he immediately waved them back.

“The call is from Chief Rossland, Miss Drew,” he said. “He phoned Twin
Elms and learned you were here. He wants to see you at once.”

“Thank you,” said Nancy, and the girls left.

They hurried to police headquarters, wondering why the officer wanted to
speak to Nancy.

“Oh, if only it’s news of Dad,” she exclaimed fervently. “But why didn’t
he get in touch with me himself?”

“I don’t want to be a killjoy,” Helen spoke up. “But maybe it’s not
about your father at all. Perhaps they’ve caught Nathan Gomber.”

Nancy parked in front of headquarters and the two girls hurried inside
the building. Captain Rossland ushered them into his office. Nancy
introduced Helen Corning.

“I won’t keep you in suspense,” the officer said, watching Nancy’s eager
face. “We have arrested Samuel Greenman!”

“The crinkly-eared man?” Helen asked.

“That’s right,” Captain Rossland replied. “Thanks to your tip about the
used car, Miss Drew, our men had no trouble at all locating him.”

The officer went on to say, however, that the prisoner refused to
confess that he had had anything to do with Mr. Drew’s disappearance.
“Furthermore, Harry the taxi driver—we have him here—insists that he
cannot positively identify Greenman as one of the passengers in his cab.
We believe Harry is scared that Greenman’s pals will beat him up or
attack members of his family.”

“Harry did tell me,” Nancy put in, “that his passenger had threatened
harm to his family unless he forgot all about what he had seen.”

“That proves our theory,” Captain Rossland stated with conviction. “Miss
Drew, we think you can help the police.”

“I’ll be glad to. How?”

Captain Rossland smiled. “You may not know it, but you’re a very
persuasive young lady. I believe that you might be able to get
information out of both Harry and Greenman, where we have failed.”

After a moment’s hesitation, Nancy replied modestly, “I’ll be happy to
try, but on one condition.” She grinned at the officer. “I must talk to
these men alone.”

“Request granted.” Captain Rossland smiled. He added that he and Helen
would wait outside and he would have Harry brought in.

“Good luck,” said Helen as she and the captain left the room.

A few moments later Harry walked in alone. “Oh hello, miss,” he said to
Nancy, barely raising his eyes from the floor.

“Won’t you sit down, Harry,” Nancy asked, indicating a chair alongside
hers. “It was nice of the captain to let me talk to you.”

Harry seated himself, but said nothing. He twisted his driver’s cap
nervously in his hands and kept his gaze downward.

“Harry,” Nancy began, “I guess your children would feel terrible if you
were kidnaped.”

“It would cut ’em to pieces,” the cabman stated emphatically.

“Then you know how I feel,” Nancy went on. “Not a word from my father
for two whole days. If your children knew somebody who’d seen the person
who kidnaped you, wouldn’t they feel bad if the man wouldn’t talk?”

Harry at last raised his eyes and looked straight at Nancy. “I get you,
miss. When somethin’ comes home to you, it makes all the difference in
the world. You win! I _can_ identify that scoundrel Greenman, and I
will. Call the captain in.”

Nancy did not wait a second. She opened the door and summoned the
officer.

“Harry has something to tell you,” Nancy said to Captain Rossland.

“Yeah,” said Harry, “I’m not goin’ to hold out any longer. I admit
Greenman had me scared, but he’s the guy who rode in my cab, then
ordered me to keep my mouth shut after that other passenger blacked
out.”

Captain Rossland looked astounded. It was evident he could hardly
believe that Nancy in only a few minutes had persuaded the man to talk!

“And now,” Nancy asked, “may I talk to your prisoner?”

“I’ll have you taken to his cell,” the captain responded, and rang for a
guard.

Nancy was led down a corridor, past a row of cells until they came to
one where the man with the crinkled ear sat on a cot.

“Greenman,” said the guard, “step up here. This is Miss Nancy Drew,
daughter of the kidnaped man. She wants to talk to you.”

The prisoner shuffled forward, but mumbled, “I ain’t goin’ to answer no
questions.”

Nancy waited until the guard had moved off, then she smiled at the
prisoner. “We all make mistakes at times,” she said. “We’re often misled
by people who urge us to do things we shouldn’t. Maybe you’re afraid
you’ll receive the death sentence for helping to kidnap my father. But
if you didn’t realize the seriousness of the whole thing, the complaint
against you may turn out just to be conspiracy.”

To Nancy’s astonishment, Greenman suddenly burst out, “You’ve got me
exactly right, miss. I had almost nothing to do with takin’ your father
away. The guy I was with—_he’s_ the old-timer. He’s got a long prison
record. I haven’t. Honest, miss, this is my first offense.

“I’ll tell you the whole story. I met this guy only Monday night. He
sure sold me a bill of goods. But all I did was see that your pop didn’t
run away. The old-timer’s the one that drugged him.”

“Where is my father now?” Nancy interrupted.

“I don’t know. Honest I don’t,” Greenman insisted. “Part of the plan was
for somebody to follow the taxi. After a while Mr. Drew was to be given
a whiff of somethin’. It didn’t have no smell. That’s why our taxi
driver didn’t catch on. And it didn’t knock the rest of us out, ’cause
you have to put the stuff right under a fellow’s nose to make it work.”

“And the person who was following in a car and took my father away, who
is he?”

“I don’t know,” the prisoner answered, and Nancy felt that he was
telling the truth.

“Did you get any money for doing this?” Nancy asked him.

“A little. Not as much as it was worth, especially if I have to go to
prison. The guy who paid us for our work was the one in the car who took
your father away.”

“Will you describe him?” Nancy requested.

“Sure. Hope the police catch him soon. He’s in his early fifties—short
and heavy-set, pale, and has kind of watery blue eyes.”

Nancy asked the prisoner if he would dictate the same confession for the
police and the man nodded. “And I’m awful sorry I caused all this worry,
miss. I hope you find your father soon and I wish I could help you more.
I guess I am a coward. I’m too scared to tell the name of the guy who
talked me into this whole thing. He’s really a bad actor—no tellin’
what’d happen to me if I gave his name.”

The young sleuth felt that she had obtained all the information she
possibly could from the man. She went back to Captain Rossland, who for
the second time was amazed by the girl’s success. He called a
stenographer. Then he said good-by to Nancy and Helen and went off
toward Greenman’s cell.

On the way back to Twin Elms, Helen congratulated her friend. “Now that
one of the kidnapers has been caught, I’m sure that your father will be
found soon, Nancy. Who do you suppose the man was who took your father
from Greenman and his friend?”

Nancy looked puzzled, then answered, “We know from his description that
he wasn’t Gomber. But, Helen, a hunch of mine is growing stronger all
the time that he’s back of this whole thing. And putting two and two
together, I believe it was Willie Wharton who drove that car.

“And I also believe Wharton’s the one who’s been playing ghost, using
masks at times—like the gorilla and the unshaven, long-haired man.

“Somehow he gets into the mansion and listens to conversations. He heard
that I was going to be asked to solve the mystery at Twin Elms and told
Gomber. That’s why Gomber came to our home and tried to keep me from
coming here by saying I should stick close to Dad.”

“That’s right,” said Helen. “And when he found that didn’t work, he had
Willie and Greenman and that other man kidnap your dad. He figured it
would surely get you away from Twin Elms. He wanted to scare Miss Flora
into selling the property, and he thought if you were around you might
dissuade her.”

“But in that I didn’t succeed,” said Nancy a bit forlornly. “Besides,
they knew Dad could stop those greedy land owners from forcing the
railroad to pay them more for their property. That’s why I’m sure Gomber
and Wharton won’t release him until after they get what they want.”

Helen laid a hand on Nancy’s shoulder. “I’m so terribly sorry about
this. What can we do next?”

“Somehow I have a feeling, Helen,” her friend replied, “that you and I
are going to find Willie Wharton before very long. And if we do, and I
find out he really signed the contract of sale, I want certain people to
be around.”

“Who?” Helen asked, puzzled.

“Mr. Barradale, the lawyer, and Mr. Watson, the notary public.”

The young sleuth put her thought into action. Knowing that Monday was
the deadline set by the railroad, she determined to do her utmost before
that time to solve the complicated mystery. Back at Twin Elms, Nancy
went to the telephone and put in a call to Mr. Barradale’s office. She
did not dare mention Gomber’s or Willie Wharton’s name for fear one or
the other of them might be listening. She merely asked the young lawyer
if he could possibly come to Cliffwood and bring with him whatever he
felt was necessary for him to win his case.

“I think I understand what you really mean to say,” he replied. “I take
it you can’t talk freely. Is that correct?”

“Yes.”

“Then I’ll ask the questions. You want me to come to the address that
you gave us the other day?”

“Yes. About noon.”

“And you’d like me to bring along the contract of sale with Willie
Wharton’s signature?”

“Yes. That will be fine.” Nancy thanked him and hung up.

Turning from the telephone, she went to find Helen and said, “There’s
still lots of daylight. Even though we can’t get inside Riverview Manor,
we can hunt through the outbuildings over there for the entrance to an
underground passage to this house.”

“All right,” her friend agreed. “But this time you do the searching.
I’ll be the lookout.”

Nancy chose the old smokehouse of Riverview Manor first, since this was
closest to the Twin Elms property line. It yielded no clue and she moved
on to the carriage house. But neither in this building, nor any of the
others, did the girl detective find any indication of entrances to an
underground passageway. Finally she gave up and rejoined Helen.

“If there is an opening, it must be from inside Riverview Manor,” Nancy
stated. “Oh, Helen, it’s exasperating not to be able to get in there!”

“I wouldn’t go in there now in any case,” Helen remarked. “It’s way past
suppertime and I’m starved. Besides, pretty soon it’ll be dark.”

The girls returned to Twin Elms and ate supper. A short time later
someone banged the front-door knocker. Both girls went to the door. They
were amazed to find that the caller was Mr. Dodd, the realtor. He held
out a large brass key toward Nancy.

“What’s this for?” she asked, mystified.

Mr. Dodd smiled.

“It’s the front-door key to Riverview Manor. I’ve decided that you can
look around the mansion tomorrow morning all you please.”

Seeing the look of delight on Nancy’s face, Mr. Dodd laughed. “Do you
think that house is haunted as well as this one?” he asked. “I hear you
like to solve mysteries.”

“Yes, I do.” Not wishing to reveal her real purpose to the realtor, the
young sleuth also laughed. “Do you think I might find a ghost over
there?” she countered.

“Well, I never saw one, but you never can tell,” the man responded with
a chuckle. He said he would leave the key with Nancy until Saturday
evening and then pick it up. “If Mr. Gomber should show up in the
meantime, I have a key to the kitchen door that he can use.”

Nancy thanked Mr. Dodd and with a grin said she would let him know if
she found a ghost at Riverview Manor.

She could hardly wait for the next morning to arrive. Miss Flora was not
told of the girls’ plan to visit the neighboring house.

Immediately after breakfast, they set off for Riverview Manor. Aunt
Rosemary went with them to the back door and wished the two good luck.
“Promise me you won’t take any chances,” she begged.

“Promise,” they said in unison.

With flashlights in their skirt pockets, Nancy and Helen hurried through
the garden and into the grounds of Riverview Manor estate.

As they approached the front porch, Helen showed signs of nervousness.
“Nancy, what will we do if we meet the ghost?” she asked.

“Just tell him we’ve found him out,” her friend answered determinedly.

Helen said no more and watched as Nancy inserted the enormous brass key
in the lock. It turned easily and the girls let themselves into the
hall. Architecturally it was the same as Twin Elms mansion, but how
different it looked now! The blinds were closed, lending an eerie
atmosphere to the dusky interior. Dust lay everywhere, and cobwebs
festooned the corners of the ceiling and spindles of the staircase.

“It certainly doesn’t look as if anybody lives here,” Helen remarked.
“Where do we start hunting?”

“I want to take a look in the kitchen,” said Nancy.

When they walked into it, Helen gasped. “I guess I was wrong. Someone
has been eating here.” Eggshells, several empty milk bottles, some
chicken bones and pieces of waxed paper cluttered the sink.

Nancy, realizing that Helen was very uneasy, whispered to her with a
giggle, “If the ghost lives here, he has a good appetite!”

The young sleuth took out her flashlight and beamed it around the floors
and walls of the kitchen. There was no sign of a secret opening. As she
went from room to room on the first floor, Helen followed and together
they searched every inch of the place for a clue to a concealed door. At
last they came to the conclusion there was none.

“You know, it could be in the cellar,” Nancy suggested.

“Well, you’re not going down there,” Helen said firmly. “That is, not
without a policeman. It’s too dangerous. As for myself, I want to live
to get married and not be hit over the head in the dark by that ghost,
so Jim won’t have a bride!”

Nancy laughed. “You win. But I’ll tell you why. At the moment I am more
interested in finding my father than in hunting for a secret passageway.
He may be a prisoner in one of the rooms upstairs. I’m going to find
out.”

The door to the back stairway was unlocked and the one at the top stood
open. Nancy asked Helen to stand at the foot of the main staircase,
while she herself went up the back steps. “If that ghost is up there and
tries to escape, he won’t be able to slip out that way,” she explained.

Helen took her post in the front hall and Nancy crept up the back steps.
No one tried to come down either stairs. Helen now went to the second
floor and together she and Nancy began a search of the rooms. They found
nothing suspicious. Mr. Drew was not there. There was no sign of a
ghost. None of the walls revealed a possible secret opening. But the
bedroom which corresponded to Miss Flora’s had a clothes closet built in
at the end next to the fireplace.

“In Colonial times closets were a rarity,” Nancy remarked to Helen. “I
wonder if this closet was added at that time and has any special
significance.”

Quickly she opened one of the large double doors and looked inside. The
rear wall was formed of two very wide wooden planks. In the center was a
round knob, sunk in the wood.

“This is strange,” Nancy remarked excitedly.

She pulled on the knob but the wall did not move. Next, she pushed the
knob down hard, leaning her full weight against the panel.

Suddenly the wall pushed inward. Nancy lost her balance and disappeared
into a gaping hole below!

Helen screamed. “Nancy!”

Trembling with fright, Helen stepped into the closet and beamed her
flashlight below. She could see a long flight of stone steps.

“Nancy! Nancy!” Helen called down.

A muffled answer came from below. Helen’s heart gave a leap of relief.
“Nancy’s alive!” she told herself, then called, “Where are you?”

“I’ve found the secret passageway,” came faintly to Helen’s ears. “Come
on down.”

Helen did not hesitate. She wanted to be certain that Nancy was all
right. Just as she started down the steps, the door began to close.
Helen, in a panic that the girls might be trapped in some subterranean
passageway, made a wild grab for the door. Holding it ajar, she removed
the sweater she was wearing and wedged it into the opening.

Finding a rail on one side of the stone steps, Helen grasped it and
hurried below. Nancy arose from the dank earthen floor to meet her.

“Are you sure you’re all right?” Helen asked solicitously.

“I admit I got a good bang,” Nancy replied, “but I feel fine now. Let’s
see where this passageway goes.”

The flashlight had been thrown from her hand, but with the aid of
Helen’s light, she soon found it. Fortunately, it had not been damaged
and she turned it on.

The passageway was very narrow and barely high enough for the girls to
walk without bending over. The sides were built of crumbling brick and
stone.

“This may tumble on us at any moment,” Helen said worriedly.

“Oh, I don’t believe so,” Nancy answered. “It must have been here for a
long time.”

The subterranean corridor was unpleasantly damp and had an earthy smell.
Moisture clung to the walls. They felt clammy and repulsive to the
touch.

Presently the passageway began to twist and turn, as if its builders had
found obstructions too difficult to dig through.

“Where do you think this leads?” Helen whispered.

“I don’t know. I only hope we’re not going in circles.”

Presently the girls reached another set of stone steps not unlike the
ones down which Nancy had tumbled. But these had solid stone sides. By
their lights, the girls could see a door at the top with a heavy wooden
bar across it.

“Shall we go up?” Helen asked.

Nancy was undecided what to do. The tunnel did not end here but yawned
ahead in blackness. Should they follow it before trying to find out what
was at the top of the stairs?

She voiced her thoughts aloud, but Helen urged that they climb the
stairs. “I’ll be frank with you. I’d like to get out of here.”

Nancy acceded to her friend’s wish and led the way up the steps.

Suddenly both girls froze in their tracks.

A man’s voice from the far end of the tunnel commanded, “Stop! You can’t
go up there!”

Their initial fright over, both girls turned and beamed their
flashlights toward the foot of the stone stairway. Below them stood a
short, unshaven, pudgy man with watery blue eyes.

“You’re the ghost!” Helen stammered.

“And you’re Mr. Willie Wharton,” Nancy added.

Astounded, the man blinked in the glaring lights, then said, “Ye-yes, I
am. But how did you know?”

“You live in the old Riverview Manor,” Helen went on, “and you’ve been
stealing food and silver and jewelry from Twin Elms!”

“No, no. I’m not a thief!” Willie Wharton cried out. “I took some food
and I’ve been trying to scare the old ladies, so they would sell their
property. Sometimes I wore false faces, but I never took any jewelry or
silver. Honest I didn’t. It must have been Mr. Gomber.”

Nancy and Helen were amazed—Willie Wharton, with little urging from
them, was confessing more than they had dared to hope.

“Did you know that Nathan Gomber is a thief?” Nancy asked the man.

Wharton shook his head. “I know he’s sharp—that’s why he’s going to get
me more money for my property from the railroad.”

“Mr. Wharton, did you sign the original contract of sale?” Nancy
queried.

“Yes, I did, but Mr. Gomber said that if I disappeared for a while, he’d
fix everything up so I’d get more money. He said he had a couple of
other jobs which I could help him with. One of them was coming here to
play ghost—it was a good place to disappear to. But I wish I had never
seen Nathan Gomber or Riverview Manor or Twin Elms or had anything to do
with ghosts.”

“I’m glad to hear you say that,” said Nancy. Then suddenly she asked,
“Where’s my father?”

Willie Wharton shifted his weight and looked about wildly. “I don’t
know, really I don’t.”

“But you kidnaped him in your car,” the young sleuth prodded him. “We
got a description of you from the taximan.”

Several seconds went by before Willie Wharton answered. “I didn’t know
it was kidnaping. Mr. Gomber said your father was ill and that he was
going to take him to a special doctor. He said Mr. Drew was coming on a
train from Chicago and was going to meet Mr. Gomber on the road halfway
between here and the station. But Gomber said he couldn’t meet him—had
other business to attend to. So I was to follow your father’s taxi and
bring him to Riverview Manor.”

“Yes, yes, go on,” Nancy urged, as Willie Wharton stopped speaking and
covered his face with his hands.

“I didn’t expect your father to be unconscious when I picked him up,”
Wharton went on. “Well, those men in the taxi put Mr. Drew in the back
of my car and I brought him here. Mr. Gomber drove up from the other
direction and said he would take over. He told me to come right here to
Twin Elms and do some ghosting.”

“And you have no idea where Mr. Gomber took my father?” Nancy asked,
with a sinking feeling.

“Nope.”

In a few words she pointed out Nathan Gomber’s real character to Willie
Wharton, hoping that if the man before her did know anything about Mr.
Drew’s whereabouts which he was not telling, he would confess. But from
Wharton’s emphatic answers and sincere offers to be of all the help he
could in finding the missing lawyer, Nancy concluded that Wharton was
not withholding any information.

“How did you find out about this passageway and the secret staircases?”
Nancy questioned him.

“Gomber found an old notebook under a heap of rubbish in the attic of
Riverview Manor,” Wharton answered. “He said it told everything about
the secret entrances to the two houses. The passageways, with openings
on each floor, were built when the houses were. They were used by the
original Turnbulls in bad weather to get from one building to the other.
This stairway was for the servants. The other two stairways were for the
family. One of these led to Mr. Turnbull’s bedroom in this house. The
notebook also said that he often secretly entertained government agents
and sometimes he had to hurry them out of the parlor and hide them in
the passageway when callers came.”

“Where does this stairway lead?” Helen spoke up.

“To the attic of Twin Elms.” Willie Wharton gave a little chuckle. “I
know, Miss Drew, that you almost found the entrance. But the guys that
built the place were pretty clever. Every opening has heavy double
doors. When you poked that screw driver through the crack, you thought
you were hitting another wall but it was really a door.”

“Did you play the violin and turn on the radio—and make that thumping
noise in the attic—and were you the one who laughed when we were up
there?”

“Yes, and I moved the sofa to scare you and I even knew about the
listening post. That’s how I found out all your plans and could report
them to Mr. Gomber.”

Suddenly it occurred to Nancy that Nathan Gomber might appear on the
scene at any moment. She must get Willie Wharton away and have him swear
to his signature before he changed his mind!

“Mr. Wharton, would you please go ahead of us up this stairway and open
the doors?” she asked. “And go into Twin Elms with us and talk to Mrs.
Turnbull and Mrs. Hayes? I want you to tell them that you’ve been
playing ghost but aren’t going to any longer. Miss Flora has been so
frightened that she’s ill and in bed.”

“I’m sorry about that,” Willie Wharton replied. “Sure I’ll go with you.
I never want to see Nathan Gomber again!”

He went ahead of the girls and took down the heavy wooden bar from
across the door. He swung it wide, pulled a metal ring in the back of
the adjoining door, then quickly stepped downward. The narrow panel
opening which Nancy had suspected of leading to the secret stairway now
was pulled inward. There was barely room alongside it to go up the top
steps and into the attic. To keep Gomber from becoming suspicious if he
should arrive, Nancy asked Willie Wharton to close the secret door
again.

“Helen,” said Nancy, “will you please run downstairs ahead of Mr.
Wharton and me and tell Miss Flora and Aunt Rosemary the good news.”

She gave Helen a three-minute start, then she and Willie Wharton
followed. The amazed women were delighted to have the mystery solved.
But there was no time for celebration.

“Mr. Barradale is downstairs to see you, Nancy,” Aunt Rosemary
announced.

Nancy turned to Willie Wharton. “Will you come down with me, please?”

She introduced both herself and the missing property owner to Mr.
Barradale, then went on, “Mr. Wharton says the signature on the contract
of sale is his own.”

“And you’ll swear to that?” the lawyer asked, turning to Willie.

“I sure will. I don’t want anything more to do with this underhanded
business,” Willie Wharton declared.

“I know where I can find a notary public right away,” Nancy spoke up.
“Do you want me to phone him, Mr. Barradale?” she asked.

“Please do. At once.”

Nancy dashed to the telephone and dialed the number of Albert Watson on
Tuttle Road. When he answered, she told him the urgency of the situation
and he promised to come over at once. Mr. Watson arrived within five
minutes, with his notary equipment. Mr. Barradale showed him the
contract of sale containing Willie Wharton’s name and signature.
Attached to it was the certificate of acknowledgment.

Mr. Watson asked Willie Wharton to raise his right hand and swear that
he was the person named in the contract of sale. After this was done,
the notary public filled in the proper places on the certificate, signed
it, stamped the paper, and affixed his seal.

“Well, this is really a wonderful job, Miss Drew,” Mr. Barradale praised
her.

Nancy smiled, but her happiness at having accomplished a task for her
father was dampened by the fact that she still did not know where he
was. Mr. Barradale and Willie Wharton also were extremely concerned.

“I’m going to call Captain Rossland and ask him to send some policemen
out here at once,” Nancy stated. “What better place for Mr. Gomber to
hide my father than somewhere along that passageway? How far does it go,
Mr. Wharton?”

“Mr. Gomber says it goes all the way to the river, but the end of it is
completely stoned up now. I never went any farther than the stairways.”

The young lawyer thought Nancy’s idea a good one, because if Nathan
Gomber should return to Riverview Manor and find that Willie was gone,
he would try to escape.

The police promised to come at once. Nancy had just finished talking
with Captain Rossland when Helen Corning called from the second floor.

“Nancy, can you come up here? Miss Flora insists upon seeing the hidden
staircase.”

The young sleuth decided that she would just about have time to do this
before the arrival of the police. Excusing herself to Mr. Barradale, she
ran up the stairs. Aunt Rosemary had put on a rose-colored dressing gown
while attending her mother. To Nancy’s amazement, Mrs. Turnbull was
fully dressed and wore a white blouse with a high collar and a black
skirt.

Nancy and Helen led the way to the attic. There, the girl detective,
crouching on her knees, opened the secret door.

“And all these years I never knew it was here!” Miss Flora exclaimed.

“And I doubt that my father did or he would have mentioned it,” Aunt
Rosemary added.

Nancy closed the secret door and they all went downstairs. She could
hear the front-door bell ringing and assumed that it was the police. She
and Helen hurried below. Captain Rossland and another officer stood
there. They said other men had surrounded Riverview Manor, hoping to
catch Nathan Gomber if he did arrive there.

With Willie Wharton leading the way, the girls, Mr. Barradale, and the
police trooped to the attic and went down the hidden staircase to the
dank passageway below.

“I have a hunch from reading about old passageways that there may be one
or more rooms off this tunnel,” Nancy told Captain Rossland.

There were so many powerful flashlights in play now that the place was
almost as bright as daylight. As the group moved along, they suddenly
came to a short stairway. Willie Wharton explained that this led to an
opening back of the sofa in the parlor. There was still another stone
stairway which went up to Miss Flora’s bedroom with an opening alongside
the fireplace.

The searchers went on. Nancy, who was ahead of the others, discovered a
padlocked iron door in the wall. Was it a dungeon? She had heard of such
places being used for prisoners in Colonial times.

By this time Captain Rossland had caught up to her. “Do you think your
father may be in there?” he asked.

“I’m terribly afraid so,” said Nancy, shivering at the thought of what
she might find.

The officer found that the lock was very rusty. Pulling from his pocket
a penknife with various tool attachments, he soon had the door unlocked
and flung it wide. He beamed his light into the blackness beyond. It was
indeed a room without windows.

Suddenly Nancy cried out, “Dad!” and sprang ahead.

Lying on blankets on the floor, and covered with others, was Mr. Drew.
He was murmuring faintly.

“He’s alive!” Nancy exclaimed, kneeling down to pat his face and kiss
him.

“He’s been drugged,” Captain Rossland observed. “I’d say Nathan Gomber
has been giving your father just enough food to keep him alive and
mixing sleeping powders in with it.”

From his trousers pocket the officer brought out a small vial of
restorative and held it to Mr. Drew’s nose. In a few moments the lawyer
shook his head, and a few seconds later, opened his eyes.

“Keep talking to your dad,” the captain ordered Nancy.

“Dad! Wake up! You’re all right! We’ve rescued you!”

Within a very short time Mr. Drew realized that his daughter was
kneeling beside him. Reaching out his arms from beneath the blankets, he
tried to hug her.

“We’ll take him upstairs,” said Captain Rossland. “Willie, open that
secret entrance to the parlor.”

“Glad to be of help.” Wharton hurried ahead and up the short flight of
steps.

In the meantime, the other three men lifted Mr. Drew and carried him
along the passageway. By the time they reached the stairway, Willie
Wharton had opened the secret door behind the sofa in the parlor. Mr.
Drew was placed on the couch. He blinked, looked around, and then said
in astonishment:

“Willie Wharton! How did you get here? Nancy, tell me the whole story.”

The lawyer’s robust health and sturdy constitution had stood him in good
stead. He recovered with amazing rapidity from his ordeal and listened
in rapt attention as one after another of those in the room related the
events of the past few days.

As the story ended, there was a knock on the front door and another
police officer was admitted. He had come to report to Captain Rossland
that not only had Nathan Gomber been captured outside of Riverview
Manor, and all the loot recovered, but also that the final member of the
group who had abducted Mr. Drew had been taken into custody. Gomber had
admitted everything, even to having attempted to injure Nancy and her
father with the truck at the River Heights’ bridge project. He had to
frighten Miss Flora into selling Twin Elms because he had planned to
start a housing project on the two Turnbull properties.

“It’s a real victory for you!” Nancy’s father praised his daughter
proudly.

The young sleuth smiled. Although she was glad it was all over, she
could not help but look forward to another mystery to solve. One soon
came her way when, quite accidentally, she found herself involved in
_The Bungalow Mystery_.

Miss Flora and Aunt Rosemary had come downstairs to meet Mr. Drew. While
they were talking to him, the police officer left, taking Willie Wharton
with him as a prisoner. Mr. Barradale also said good-by. Nancy and Helen
slipped out of the room and went to the kitchen.

“We’ll prepare a super-duper lunch to celebrate this occasion!” said
Helen happily.

“And we can make all the plans we want,” Nancy replied with a grin.
“There won’t be anyone at the listening post!”

“Nancy Drew! How did you and Helen paddle that canoe up here so fast
from River Heights?” cried Doris Drake in astonishment.

Nancy, an attractive titian blond, grinned up at her friend. Doris was
weeding a flower garden at her home along the riverbank. “How do _you_
know when we left home?” Nancy’s blue eyes twinkled.

“My friend Phyl told me on the phone just half an hour ago that she’d
talked with you, Nancy, at the Elite Drug Store in River Heights.”

Nancy looked surprised. “She couldn’t have. Helen and I were on our way
here at that time.”

Slender, pretty Helen Corning, three years older than Nancy, frowned.
“You must have a double, Nancy. Better watch out!”

“I can’t understand it,” Nancy murmured. “You say Phyl _talked_ to her
and she didn’t say it was a mistake?”

“That’s right, Nancy,” said Doris. “But Phyl was wrong, of course. After
all, she doesn’t know you terribly well. Say, where are you and Helen
going?”

“To visit overnight with Emily Willoughby and her aunt at Lilac Inn.
They’re family friends. Emily and her fiancé—we’ve never met him—have
bought the inn, and Em tells me, plan to run it full time.”

Helen added, “Nancy and I are to be Emily’s bridesmaids. We’ll talk over
wedding plans.”

“How wonderful!” Doris exclaimed.

Nancy and Helen said good-by and paddled off upstream. The Angus River,
a tributary of the Muskoka, was banked on either side with dense
shrubbery, willow trees, and wild flowers.

“We’re almost to Benton,” Nancy said. “The old inn should be just beyond
the next bend.”

The next second something rammed the canoe violently. The impact
capsized the craft, hurling Nancy and Helen into the chilly May water!

Fortunately, the girls were excellent swimmers. Each instinctively
grasped her buoyant, waterproof canvas traveling bag, bobbing nearby,
and swam to a grassy bank.

“Whew!” said Nancy, as she dropped her bag to the ground. “Are you all
right, Helen?”

Her friend nodded, shivering in her bedraggled shirt and slacks, despite
the warm sun. “What made us capsize?”

[Illustration: The impact capsized the canoe]

Nancy shrugged. She kicked off her moccasins and plunged into the water
again to find out, and to retrieve the canoe. It was drifting upside
down a short distance away.

After righting the canoe, Nancy towed it to where they had overturned.
She ducked her head beneath the unruffled surface, but saw nothing
unusual in the twenty-foot-deep water.

“That’s strange,” she thought. “Maybe we hit a floating log.” But this
explanation did not fully satisfy her. A drifting log probably would be
still in sight, and there was none.

Nancy pushed the canoe toward shore. Helen grabbed the stern, and pulled
the canoe far enough up the bank so the girls could examine it. To their
relief, it was undamaged.

“Did you see that man with the crew cut in the rowboat?” Helen asked.

“No. Where?”

Helen pointed to a small, high dock fifty feet downstream. She said that
while Nancy was swimming, the man had climbed from the water into a
rowboat, glanced their way, then gone in the opposite direction.

“He didn’t even try to help us!” Helen said indignantly. “Do you think
maybe _he_ upset our canoe?”

“I don’t see how he could have.” Nancy smiled. “But he has upset _you_.
Let’s go!”

The girls stepped back into the canoe and paddled off. As they rounded
the next bend, Helen cried, “There’s the Lilac Inn dock!”

When the canoe came abreast of the dock, Nancy secured it to a post. The
girls hopped out and started up the path that led to the inn. On both
sides of the path were groves of lilac trees which displayed a profusion
of blooms, from creamy white to deep purple.

As the girls gazed in delight, a voice called, “Nancy! Helen! I’m so
glad to see you. But whatever happened?”

“Emily! Pretend I’m hugging you,” Nancy said with a laugh, and explained
their accident.

Emily Willoughby, a dainty young woman, had chestnut-colored hair, set
off to advantage by her white linen dress.

Beside her stood a handsome, well-built man with wavy, black hair. Nancy
and Helen assumed the young man was her fiancé, Dick Farnham, but Emily
introduced him as John McBride, an old friend of Dick’s.

“John is going to be Dick’s best man,” Emily explained.

John smiled cordially. “Dick and I were boyhood friends in California,
and roommates at college. I’m an Army sergeant on a month’s leave.” He
looked at the new arrivals with twinkling eyes. “Emily will tell you why
I’m here. And I’m sure glad I am.”

“Now don’t go making up to my friends, John,” Emily teased. “Helen is
engaged to Jim Archer, who has a position with an oil company overseas,
and Nancy—well, she’s mighty busy these days.”

The visitors laughed, as Emily added, “You girls change into dry clothes
at once.”

John carried their bags, as Emily led the way along a shrubbed path
which opened onto the spacious lawn surrounding Lilac Inn. Helen and
Nancy looked with admiration at the historic hotel, erected in
Revolutionary times.

“Here are the new guest cottages,” Emily said, as they reached a group
of twelve trim white units. “And this one is where you’ll stay.”

She unlocked the door of the second cottage and the friends stepped
inside. John set down the bags. “See you girls later,” he said.

As Helen admired the attractive colonial-style bedroom, Nancy noticed a
look of anxiety in Emily’s eyes. But the next instant it vanished.

Nancy and Helen listened with great interest while their friend said
that she and Dick were enlarging the inn. “John has been a big help with
our projects. Dick is in New York working on publicity for us.”

“I’m sure Lilac Inn will be a bang-up success,” Nancy told her.

“Oh, I hope so,” Emily said. For a fleeting moment Nancy again detected
a worried look in the young woman’s eyes. Why?

Emily went on, “You’re almost the first guests in our cottage
section—John was first. He’s staying near you. The official opening of
the inn won’t be until July first. That is, if we can complete
everything by then,” she added dubiously.

“If your aunt is here, Em, I’d love to see her,” Nancy said.

“Aunt Hazel’s been looking forward to seeing you. I’ll tell her you’ve
arrived. Come over to the inn after you’ve unpacked.”

Nancy and Helen changed into pastel cotton dresses, put away the few
belongings they had brought, then headed for the inn. As they walked
across the lawn, they passed gardeners who were pruning trees and
cultivating flower beds edged with pansies.

“It’s perfectly beautiful here,” Helen remarked.

The girls went to the front of the inn, a two-story clapboard building
with a one-level wing on either side. All around it were lilac trees and
other flowering bushes. Nancy and Helen mounted the wide steps and
entered the center hall. Its paneled walls, old staircase, and beautiful
cut-glass chandelier made them feel as though they had stepped back into
an earlier century.

The reservation desk was in an alcove off the hallway. John McBride was
just putting a letter into the outgoing mail slot.

“Hi!” He grinned. “Ready for a tour of inspection? Delighted to escort
you.”

“We accept.” Helen smiled. “After Nancy and I say hello to Emily’s Aunt
Hazel.”

Just then Emily entered the hall. “Aunt Hazel is—er—busy, but she’ll
be free in a few minutes. In the meantime, I must speak to Mr. Daly, the
former owner of Lilac Inn. He’s staying to manage the dining room, which
we’ve kept open for business.”

She led the girls to a narrow corridor which ran off the lobby. “Why
don’t you two wait for Aunt Hazel and me in my office? It’s the fourth
door down.”

Nancy and Helen proceeded along the corridor. As they passed the second
door, which was partially open, the girls heard a familiar voice say:

“I can’t lend you any more money, Maud! Please don’t ask me again!”

Before Nancy and Helen could retreat, Aunt Hazel Willoughby walked
quickly from the room. She was followed by a younger woman who had an
angry look on her rather pretty but petulant face.

“Nancy! Helen!” Emily’s aunt exclaimed, stopping short. “How nice to see
you both here! I’m so glad you can be Emily’s attendants.”

“We are too.” Nancy smiled and Helen added, “Emily’s going to be a
lovely bride.”

Mrs. Willoughby, a woman of fifty-five, beamed. White hair framed her
face in soft waves, and she was impeccably groomed. She introduced her
companion as Mrs. Maud Potter, and said she was to be the inn’s social
director for the summer.

“That sounds exciting,” said Nancy pleasantly.

For a moment Maud’s eyes narrowed. Then she tossed her head. “I may not
be here July first!” she exploded, and walked away rapidly.

The girls, somewhat taken aback, looked inquiringly at Mrs. Willoughby.
The older woman, flustered, made no explanation. She excused herself and
hurried after Maud.

Nancy and Helen exchanged glances.

“What a way for a social director to act!” Helen said in disgust. “I
wonder why the two women were quarreling about money.”

At that moment Emily rejoined the girls and led them into her office.
The room was cozy, with a braided rug and pine furniture. The desk in
front of the window was cluttered with papers.

“Dick’s!” Emily laughed. Then she sobered. “He is worried about
finances, poor boy! So far he hasn’t been able to raise as much capital
as we need,” she confided. “I had a hard time convincing him to agree to
a certain idea of mine.”

“Can you tell us about it?” Nancy asked.

Before Emily could answer, there was a cry of pain from somewhere in the
garden. The three girls dashed outside through the front entrance.

Apparently one of the gardeners had stumbled into a large hole in a
pathway being strewn with gravel. The man was moaning.

“Oh, Hank!” Emily gasped.

The girls hurried to his side and discovered that one of his legs had
gone down through some soft earth.

“Pull me out!” the gardener demanded.

With the girls’ assistance, Hank was freed.

“I hope your leg’s not broken,” Emily said solicitously.

Hank shook his head. “Just a bad sprain. I wasn’t lookin’ where I was
goin’. What I can’t figure out is how that hole got here. Queer things
have been goin’ on at this inn. I’m thinkin’ of quittin’. Anyhow, I’m
goin’ home now.”

“Oh, don’t quit!” Emily cried.

Several other gardeners had rushed up. All denied having dug the hole.
Emily asked one of them, a thin, narrow-eyed young man, named Gil Gary,
to drive Hank to his house.

The other men returned to their work, but the girls remained at the site
of the accident. Emily’s face was troubled.

Nancy said impulsively, “Something’s bothering you, Em. What is it?”

Emily’s whispered reply astonished her friends. “Dick and I seem to have
a mysterious enemy. He is trying to jinx Lilac Inn!”

A jinx on Lilac Inn! Nancy and Helen stared at Emily in astonishment.

“Tell us about it,” Nancy urged her friend.

Emily sighed. “I will. I didn’t want to worry Aunt Hazel, so I’ve kept
my suspicions to myself.”

The chestnut-haired girl said that four days ago her fiancé had left for
New York. Prior to that time, everything had been running smoothly at
the inn. An hour after Dick’s departure, one of the waitresses had come
to Emily’s office to give notice.

“When I asked her why she was dissatisfied, she said it was because the
inn was—was haunted!”

“What did she mean?” Nancy asked.

Emily said she had not taken the statement seriously. “At the time I was
sure the waitress, Mary Mason, was just making up an excuse for leaving.
She packed and left on the bus to River Heights that day. Now I’m not so
sure she hadn’t seen something strange.

“Sunday morning Gil Gary reported that our finest lilac tree near the
front entrance had been stolen. No ghost did that!”

“What a shame!” Helen exclaimed.

“Mr. Daly was heartbroken,” Emily said unhappily. “Several years ago he
rooted this lilac—the Lucie Baltet variety with a lovely pinkish
flower. It was just beginning to blossom abundantly.

“The third strange occurrence,” Emily continued, “was around twelve
o’clock last night. I was awakened by the sound of music and traced it
to our record player in the recreation room. No one was there.”

“Perhaps someone at the inn was playing a joke,” Nancy suggested.

“No. Everyone denied this,” Emily answered. “A window in the recreation
room was partially open. It looked as though it had been forced. And I
know all the windows had been closed earlier.”

There was a thoughtful silence for several seconds, then Emily linked
arms with her chums. “I won’t worry you with any more mysteries,” she
said. “Let’s have lunch and later concentrate on wedding plans.”

Near the dining-room door Emily stopped to introduce her friends to a
kind-faced, white-haired man. “This is Mr. Daly, the former owner, whom
I told you about. I just couldn’t get along without him. I’m so glad he
decided to stay awhile, even though he wants to retire.”

“How do you do?” Nancy and Helen smiled and shook hands, then went to a
corner table near an old hutch cabinet.

Nancy’s mind was still on the series of events Emily had just related.
It _did_ sound as if something peculiar was going on at Lilac Inn!

Nancy had learned from her lawyer father, Carson Drew, that a seemingly
unrelated chain of events often became a single baffling mystery. The
young sleuth had found proof of this in solving several cases
herself—her first being _The Secret of the Old Clock_, and more
recently, _The Bungalow Mystery_.

Mrs. Willoughby and John McBride joined the girls. Emily asked them
where Maud was.

“I believe she’s sun-bathing on the dock,” Mrs. Willoughby replied. “She
ate an early lunch.”

There was a tense note in the woman’s voice which Nancy quickly
detected. The girl detective recalled the conversation she and Helen had
overheard that morning. Had further trouble developed?

When Anna, the waitress, brought the first course of beef broth, Emily
changed the subject abruptly. “Lilac Inn is really a fascinating place,”
she said. “The original floors are still intact, and it’s rumored that
George Washington ate here in the stagecoach days.”

John smiled. “According to reports, our first president must have eaten
at every dining place in this country!”

During the luncheon of creamed chicken on toast, peas, salad, and iced
tea, Helen asked whether Emily had a neighbor who wore his hair in a
crew cut. She explained about the man who had rowed off, instead of
coming to the girls’ rescue, when their canoe capsized. Emily and her
aunt shook their heads.

“Not a very gallant guy,” John remarked. He asked several questions
about the man with the crew cut and seemed very much disappointed when
Helen could add nothing more to the description.

Later, Nancy said to John, “Your career in the Army must be interesting.
Do you have a special assignment?”

“Wish I could tell you, Nancy. But it’s classified, or confidential, to
civilians.”

“I understand.” Nancy smiled. Presently she turned to Emily. “I saw
Doris Drake on the way here. Her house isn’t far away, is it?”

“About a mile up the road,” Emily answered.

After luncheon Emily offered to show Nancy and Helen around the inn and
take them on a tour of the extensive grounds.

“I’ll get the jeep for that trip,” John offered.

Emily showed her friends the parlors and writing room, and the modern
wing containing the pine-paneled recreation room.

“Very attractive,” Nancy remarked. She spotted a record player in one
corner. “Is that the one the intruder used, Emily?”

“Yes. And here’s the window which I found forced open last night,” Emily
pointed out.

Next, Nancy and Helen were escorted upstairs to see Emily’s attractive,
old-fashioned two-room suite. “When the inn is ready, there’ll be
accommodations for fifty guests—”

At this instant a piercing shriek came from the garden. The three girls
dashed down the stairs and rushed outside.

“The cry came from near the river,” said Nancy, running in that
direction.

John McBride and two gardeners joined them. They made a thorough search,
but found no one.

Emily turned to Nancy with questioning eyes. “Are you thinking what I
am—that the person screamed just to frighten us? And make this place
almost seem haunted?”

“Yes. But why? Is someone trying to balk your expansion program here?”
Nancy suggested.

“Possibly. But I can’t figure out the reason,” Emily replied. “Well,
I’ll show you the rest of the house.”

She took the visitors to the far wing, where the kitchen was located.
Its gleaming wall ovens and natural-stone colonial fireplace, complete
with spit, fascinated Nancy.

“Emily, you’ll have no trouble filling every room in this inn,” she said
enthusiastically. “It’s absolutely charming!”

“I hope you’re right,” Emily replied fervently. “If only the mystery
haunting this place could be solved! You’ll help, Nancy?”

“I’ll certainly try, Emily.”

The three girls went to the parking lot where John awaited them at the
wheel of the jeep. “Hold onto your hats!” he called.

His three hatless passengers grinned as they hopped into the rear seat.
The vehicle shot forward and turned into a dirt lane.

Soon they were driving among groves of apple and peach trees. At Emily’s
request, John stopped the jeep near an apple tree. She got out to
examine the leafy branches. “We’ll have an abundant crop this season,”
she commented. “There are lots of tiny apples forming.”

John had climbed out also. Suddenly he stooped and examined the ground.

“What are you looking at?” Nancy called to him.

“A big fat beetle.” John laughed.

Nancy chuckled, but she had the feeling that John had been evasive in
his reply. As the jeep started off, she looked back. There was a trail
of marks leading toward the river.

“They look like flipper tracks,” she thought. “I wonder if John made
them or if he suspects someone else did.”

Later, when the young people returned to the inn, they found Maud Potter
on the patio. Nancy was amazed at the change in the woman’s manner. Now
she was smiling broadly as she waved a folded newspaper.

“Nancy!” she cried effusively. “You’re a skin-diving celebrity!”

“What do you mean?” Nancy asked, puzzled, as Mrs. Willoughby joined the
group.

Maud opened the paper and pointed to page one of the River Heights
_Evening News_.

“Why, Nancy Drew!” Helen exclaimed. “Your picture—and a write-up! You
never breathed a word!”

Everyone clustered around to see the picture of Nancy in a bathing suit,
diver’s mask, and flippers and the accompanying article. The caption
read:

_Daughter of Local Lawyer, Carson Drew, Learns Her A-B Seas in Skin
Diving._

The article went on to tell that Nancy had just completed a course in
advanced skin diving in the Muskoka River, and that she had finished
first in total points in the twenty-student group.

“‘When asked by our reporter where she hoped to practice the sport,’”
John read aloud, “‘Miss Drew replied she would like to skin-dive in both
salt and fresh water. This writer strongly suspects that there will be
times when she will use her newly acquired knowledge in solving
mysteries at which Miss Drew, we understand, is proficient.’”

With an admiring glance, John said, “Meet a fellow frogman. I
practically grew up in flippers.”

“Really? Oh, I have a wonderful idea!”

Nancy said she would still like to find out, if possible, what had upset
her canoe so suddenly. “Maybe there is some submerged object I didn’t
notice. It could be a hazard to other people in boats. John, why don’t
you take a look underwater at that same spot?”

“How about both of us going?” John suggested, smiling.

Emily spoke up. “Nancy, you and Helen must stay here longer. You can
work on the mystery and also go skin diving with John.”

Both girls accepted eagerly. “We’ll paddle home tomorrow,” said Nancy,
“pick up more clothes and my diving equipment, then come back.”

For the rest of the afternoon, the three girls discussed the subject of
gowns to be worn by Emily’s bridal attendants. Nancy and Helen were
delighted to learn that the color was to be lilac pink.

“By the way, Em,” Helen said, “do you know where lilacs came from
originally?”

Their hostess nodded. “A German traveler brought the flower from the
Orient to Europe in the sixteenth century. Eventually the lilac was
introduced to America.”

All this time Nancy had noted that Emily was doing her best to seem
cheerful, and Maud too continued to act carefree. Emily had arranged a
steak cook-out on the patio, and the social director joined in the
lively banter. When they finished eating, she brought out a guitar.

“How about some Western tunes?” she suggested gaily.

“Fine. Let’s all sing,” Helen answered.

At eleven o’clock the group said good night and the River Heights girls
tumbled into bed.

The next morning Nancy had just finished dressing when there was a knock
on the cottage door. John called out:

“Phone call for you, Nancy, at the desk in the lobby. The cottage phones
aren’t connected yet.”

“Thank you.” Nancy hurried to the lobby and picked up the receiver.
“Hello? . . . Why, Hannah! What’s the trouble?”

Hannah Gruen was the Drews’ housekeeper, and had “mothered” Nancy since
the age of three when her own mother had passed away.

“Oh, Nancy!” Hannah sounded almost hysterical. “Come home right away!
Your father isn’t here, and someone broke into the house last night!”

Nancy was shocked by Hannah’s news. “Have you called the police about
the prowler?” she asked the housekeeper.

“No. I wanted to tell you first. I didn’t know what had happened until I
carried some clean clothes to your room. The second floor seems to be
the only place disturbed.”

Hannah explained that she had tried to reach Mr. Drew at his hotel in
Cleveland, where he was working on a case. But the lawyer had been out.

“I’ll be home as soon as possible,” Nancy promised. “In the meantime,
please notify Chief McGinnis.”

“I will, Nancy. Good-by.”

Nancy was just about to put down the phone, when she heard a click on
the line. Instantly she wondered if someone at Lilac Inn had been
purposely listening in on her call.

Before Nancy could speculate further, Emily joined her. Quickly Nancy
gave her friend Hannah’s report. “I must borrow a car and go right
home,” she said.

Emily expressed concern about the apparent burglary. “I hope nothing
valuable was taken. But, Nancy, you must have breakfast before you go.”
Emily led the way to the dining room.

Nancy asked her where the other telephones at the inn were located and
mentioned the fact that someone might have been eavesdropping on her
conversation.

“Every room has an extension,” Emily said. “But the only ones connected
right now, besides the desk phone, are in the kitchen, my bedroom, my
aunt’s, and the recreation room.”

The young sleuth hastily excused herself. “I’d like to make a few
inquiries, Em. Meet me at the table, will you?”

Nancy went into the kitchen. She saw Anna, the waitress, and asked the
girl if anyone had used the telephone within the past few minutes. No
one had. Then Nancy hurried to the recreation room. It was empty.

When Nancy reached the dining room, she found Emily at the table alone.
“Did you learn anything?” Emily asked.

“No.”

Emily whispered, “I just remembered, Nancy. Maud had her phone hooked up
yesterday.”

At that moment Maud came into the dining room. Nancy learned that Maud
had just returned from a walk along the river. A few minutes later Mrs.
Willoughby, Helen, and John arrived. None had used the phone that
morning.

“Guess that click didn’t mean an eavesdropper at the inn,” Nancy
thought.

The others were sympathetic upon hearing her reason for returning home
immediately. John promptly offered to drive Nancy in the jeep. But Mrs.
Willoughby laughed and said, “I can give you a more comfortable ride,
Nancy.”

As she started to explain, Anna came to take the orders of those at the
table.

“I have to drive to the River Heights Bank this morning,” Mrs.
Willoughby went on, “to get Emily’s diamonds from the safe-deposit box.
I’d be delighted to have company.”

Before Nancy could reply, Maud Potter repeated shrilly, “Emily’s
_diamonds_?”

Mrs. Willoughby nodded. “As you know, I’ve been Emily’s guardian for
five years, since her parents were killed in the plane crash. Her
mother’s will states that she’s to receive the jewels when she’s
twenty-one.”

Emily dimpled. “That’s in two weeks. But I coaxed Aunt Hazel into
letting me have them earlier. I’m going to sell enough to help Dick and
me with expenses at the inn.”

Nancy smiled. “That must be the plan you told me about yesterday.”

“That’s right.” Emily’s eyes sparkled.

Maud had been listening intently. She said to Mrs. Willoughby, “You told
me there were twenty unset diamonds. I suppose they are worth quite a
bit?”

Mrs. Willoughby smiled. “Yes. Over fifty thousand dollars.”

Maud remarked pointedly, “You’d better be careful, Hazel. Some people
would love to get their hands on those jewels.”

As soon as Mrs. Willoughby finished her toast and coffee, she arose from
the table. “Nancy,” she said, “I’ll get the car.”

The three girls excused themselves and went outside. “Perhaps, Helen,”
Nancy said, “you’d like to stay at the inn. I’ll be driving back, and
can stop at your house to pick up whatever clothes you need.”

“Thanks, Nancy. I’d like to stay. I’ll phone Mother.”

Emily asked if Nancy would have a chance to do her a favor in River
Heights. “I’d ask Aunt Hazel, but she wants to get back here as soon as
possible with my diamonds.”

“I’ll be glad to. What is it, Em?”

“Find out if the Empire Employment Agency has any waitresses available.”

“Did you get Mary Mason through them?” Nancy asked.

“No. She stopped here. But her references were excellent, so I engaged
her.”

“I’ll be happy to do the errand for you, Emily,” Nancy said.

Mrs. Willoughby pulled up in her black sedan and Nancy climbed in front.
John had come outside too.

“Don’t forget,” he said to her, “we have a skin-diving date when you get
back.”

At that moment Maud Potter hurried from the inn to the car. “I’ll come
along, if you don’t mind,” the social director said blithely.

She hopped in beside Nancy without waiting for an invitation. Mrs.
Willoughby’s lips tightened, but she made no comment. Good-bys were
exchanged and the car started off.

Soon the sedan was speeding along the main highway. “Any ideas about
your burglar?” Maud asked Nancy.

“No,” Nancy admitted. “Except he might have been trying to break into
Dad’s safe.”

Maud cocked her head. “Does your father keep important papers at home?”

“Sometimes,” Nancy replied noncommittally. She tried to hide her
annoyance at the woman’s inquisitiveness.

Mrs. Willoughby frowned disapprovingly. “Don’t ask so many questions,
Maud.”

The social director shrugged. Once more she turned to Nancy. Arching her
eyebrows coyly, she said, “I’d love to meet your dad sometime. I
understand he is a widower.”

“This is the last straw!” Nancy thought. Though annoyed, she had to
suppress a smile at the woman’s remark. Maud Potter certainly was not
the type of person to interest her father!

“Dad keeps very busy, and travels a lot on his cases,” Nancy said
coolly. “He’s away now.”

Maud’s coyness vanished. “I see. No time for social life,” she said
sarcastically.

To Nancy’s relief, the woman spoke hardly at all for the balance of the
trip. Presently Mrs. Willoughby pulled up into the winding driveway of
the Drews’ handsome brick home, surrounded by a velvety green lawn.

Nancy expressed her thanks for the ride and said good-by. She hurried
into the house, for the moment forgetting Lilac Inn completely. Hannah
Gruen greeted her with, “Oh, Nancy dear. I’m so glad you’re back. I’ve
been frantic!”

Nancy hugged the pleasant-faced woman, who said that Police Chief
McGinnis had stopped at the house to investigate the burglary.

“No silver or other valuables are missing,” Hannah went on. “But your
room is a mess. Whoever was here must have been after something you keep
there.” The woman frowned worriedly.

Nancy dashed up the stairs. What a sight met her eyes as she entered her
room! Bureau and chest drawers were open, their contents spilling out.
Perfume bottles lay overturned on her dressing table. Clothes had been
pulled from the closet and flung onto the bed and floor.

Mrs. Gruen, who had followed Nancy, explained, “Chief McGinnis wanted me
to leave everything like this for you to see.”

Nancy nodded. “How was the house entered?”

“Through the back door,” Hannah replied. “The chief said the intruder
must be an expert lock picker and burglar. He left no fingerprints.”

Nancy hurried into her father’s bedroom. Nothing here had been disturbed
apparently. She went into the adjoining den and was relieved to see that
the thief had not broken into the safe.

“The only thing missing from here is my picture,” Nancy reported to
Hannah.

“Oh, dear! What does it all mean?” the housekeeper asked worriedly.

Before Nancy could continue, the phone rang, and she answered it.

“Miss Nancy Drew?” a woman asked.

“Yes.”

“This is Burk’s Department Store. I’m Mrs. Reilly of the fine jewelry
department. I made a terrible mistake when I sold you that watch this
morning. The price was one hundred and twenty-five dollars, not fifty as
I told you. Do you still want to keep it?”

Utterly astounded, Nancy said, “Mrs. Reilly, I didn’t buy a watch this
morning! I was out of town.”

“Isn’t your charge account number 10-4875?”

“Wait, please. I’ll check.”

Nancy hurried to open the desk drawer where she had put Burk’s charge
plate. Its leather case was there, but the metal plate was not inside.
“It has been stolen!” Nancy exclaimed.

With a sense of foreboding, she returned to the phone. “I’ll drive right
down to see the manager,” Nancy said. “My charge plate has been stolen,
I’m afraid.”

Nancy paused long enough to tell Hannah of her discovery, and to notify
Chief McGinnis. The officer said he would meet her at the store
manager’s office.

Just as she was about to enter Burk’s, Nancy stopped short. To her
amazement, she saw Maud Potter entering the Empire Employment Agency
office across the street.

“Now what’s up?” Nancy wondered. “Is Maud trying to engage a waitress
for the inn, too?”

Puzzled, she hurried into the department store and took an elevator to
the third-floor office of the manager, Mr. Goldsmith.

“I’m Nancy Drew,” she greeted him pleasantly. “I want to explain—”

She got no further. With a stern look, the manager said curtly, “I know
all about the watch you claim not to have bought early this morning. But
how about those other items you carried away?”

Dumfounded, Nancy could only echo, “_Other_ items?”

Grimly the manager continued, “I don’t know what your game is, Miss
Drew. But unless you have a twin, you owe Burk’s Department Store for
merchandise worth two thousand dollars!”

Nancy felt she must be dreaming. Not only had the thief charged two
thousand dollars to her account, but the store manager seemed to believe
that Nancy herself had made the purchases.

“I must have a double!” she thought. “Doris Drake’s friend Phyl was
right in thinking she was talking to me. Someone is impersonating me!
It’s possible this person or a friend of hers broke into our house, took
the charge plate, and some of my clothes for her to wear!”

Outwardly, Nancy tried to appear calm. “I couldn’t have bought those
things, Mr. Goldsmith,” she insisted. “This is the first time today I’ve
been in Burk’s.”

For answer, the manager pressed a buzzer. Three women entered. He
introduced them as Mrs. Reilly, Miss Coogan, and Mrs. Watson.

“Mrs. Reilly sold you the watch,” said Mr. Goldsmith. “From Miss Coogan
you bought an expensive mink stole. Next, you purchased two high-priced
dresses in Mrs. Watson’s department. Ladies, do you identify this girl?”

The saleswomen nodded. Each one identified her as Nancy Drew, the young
woman she had waited on, and who had signed sales slips for each
purchase.

“This is preposterous!” Nancy cried, her blue eyes flashing. “Someone is
impersonating me. She stole my charge plate. I want to see those sales
slips.”

Just then, to Nancy’s relief, Chief McGinnis entered the office. He and
the Drews were old friends, and he greeted Nancy cordially.

Mr. Goldsmith spoke up. “Glad you’re here, Chief. I was just going to
call you.” He explained what had happened.

The police officer replied calmly, “If Nancy Drew says she didn’t buy
anything, she didn’t. Let’s get down to facts, Mr. Goldsmith. I’m here
to help Miss Drew, and Burk’s also.”

The chief quizzed the salesclerks briefly. After hearing their stories,
he said gravely, “Nancy, I’m afraid this young woman who resembles you
so closely—and forged your signature on the sales slips—may continue
to take advantage of it.”

Nancy smiled ruefully. “I realize that.” She was more convinced of this
than ever when the sales slips were brought to the office. The forgery
was excellent. Nancy’s impersonator must have carefully practiced the
signature on the charge plate.

Mr. Goldsmith sighed wearily. “I’m sorry, Miss Drew, about this whole
matter, and that I suspected you of dishonesty.”

“That’s all right,” she replied. “The main thing is to track down the
culprit and get back your stolen property.”

She asked the clerks what her “twin” had been wearing. “It was a lovely
light-blue dress,” replied Mrs. Reilly. “Printed silk, with white
flowers.”

Nancy gasped. “I have a dress like that. And I don’t remember seeing it
in my closet today.”

“The woman no doubt took it,” the police chief said, frowning. “Nancy,
be very careful. This impersonation may mean not only annoyance, but
possible danger for you.”

Mr. Goldsmith promised that Burk’s private detective and all the store’s
sales personnel would be on the lookout for Nancy’s unknown double.

As the young sleuth left the store with Chief McGinnis, she said to him,
“I wonder if this person actually is my double or is only cleverly made
up to resemble me.”

The officer frowned. “If it’s the latter, the thief will be harder to
catch. She may not pose as Nancy Drew again for some time. But I’ll have
my men start working on the case from every possible angle.” He admitted
that no clues to the thief at the Drew home had been found. “I’ll post a
twenty-four-hour guard at your home.”

“Good,” Nancy said. “Hannah will feel much better, since I have to
return to Lilac Inn this afternoon, and Dad’s away.”

Nancy said good-by to the chief and hurried across the street to the
employment agency. She wondered if by chance Maud Potter might still be
there. But when Nancy entered the office, the only person there was the
woman manager, seated at a desk.

“Can I help you?” she asked Nancy.

“I’m here at the request of the new owners of Lilac Inn,” Nancy replied.
“Has anyone else been in to ask about a waitress to work out there?”

“No.”

As Nancy asked her next question, she was thinking, “Why was Maud in
here?” Aloud she said, “Have you any waitresses on your list?”

“Not at present. We’ll call you if any apply.”

On impulse, Nancy asked her, “Could you tell me if you’ve ever had a
Miss Mary Mason on your waitress list?”

The woman opened a nearby file and flipped through a folder. “No, we
haven’t.”

Nancy thanked the manager and left the agency. When she arrived home and
told Hannah the latest developments, the housekeeper was more upset than
ever.

“I feel in my bones that this impersonator is up to something sinister,”
she declared. “I wish your dad were home.”

“You’ll be safe here, Hannah,” Nancy said assuringly, and told Mrs.
Gruen that a policeman would be assigned to guard the house. “And
speaking of Dad, I’m going to call him right now and ask him if he took
that picture of me with him.”

“While you do that, I’ll fix some lunch for us,” Mrs. Gruen offered.
“You must be starved. It’s two o’clock.”

Nancy went to the hall telephone and a minute later was requesting the
switchboard operator at the Cleveland hotel to ring Mr. Drew’s room.

“Hello?” came the lawyer’s deep, resonant voice.

“Hi, Dad! How good to hear you!” Nancy said happily.

She gave him an account of the burglary and succeeding events. Carson
Drew was greatly concerned. “Nancy,” he added in a troubled voice, “I
didn’t bring your photograph with me. Your double must have taken it.
She has already fooled four persons who don’t know you well. With the
help of the picture, she may try something bolder,” he stated.

“You think this girl has some ulterior motive other than faking my
charge account, don’t you, Dad?”

“I’m afraid so. Be on your guard, Nancy. Try to stay with a group as
much as possible, particularly after you return to Lilac Inn.”

The lawyer added that he would be home the next day. “I’ll look into the
whole affair then.”

Nancy promised to be careful and said good-by. She and Hannah sat down
and ate lunch. Finally Nancy said she had to pack and leave.

“But first I’m going to try locating that waitress Mary Mason.” Nancy
picked up the telephone directory and thumbed through it until she
reached the _M_’s. She called two families named Mason, but each denied
having a relative Mary.

“Probably,” Nancy surmised, “Mary did not live in this area.”

Deep in thought she went upstairs and took a suitcase from her closet.
Nancy quickly placed additional garments in it, then gathered up her
skin-diving equipment: green rubber fins, a diving mask, and an
aqualung. Finally, Nancy packed a rubber suit which would insulate her
body against the cold river water, and an underwater camera her father
had given her.

Nancy kissed Hannah good-by and got into her convertible. She drove to
the Cornings’ home and picked up Helen’s suitcase, then set out for
Lilac Inn.

Her thoughts revolved around the mystery out there and also on the
problem of her impersonator. “No one could look enough like me to be
absolutely identical. Why, even identical twins have distinguishing
characteristics,” she told herself with a smile, “such as the shape of
fingernails, voice tones, and facial expressions.”

The late-afternoon traffic on the highway to Benton was becoming heavy.
Nancy turned from the main road onto a very narrow, less-used one.
Presently, in her mirror, she saw a red panel truck behind her coming
along at an alarming speed. Nancy, at the same time, noted an arrow
indicating a sharp curve ahead. She braked and motioned the truck driver
to slow down.

Either he did not see her signal, or was ignoring it. Instead of slowing
down, the truck’s speed increased, as if to pass her. The curve was not
wide enough for two cars to go side by side. On Nancy’s right was a deep
ditch, filled with water.

She had no choice but to start around the curve. To her horror, the
other vehicle was already edging around her left fender. Nancy glimpsed
a chrome eagle ornament on the truck’s hood.

A split second later her convertible was forced over into the ditch!

As Nancy’s convertible leaned precariously, its right wheels in the
ditch, the panel truck roared on around the bend and out of sight. Nancy
braked her car to a stop, thankful it had not turned over.

“That driver ought to have his license revoked!” she thought
indignantly. She knew it would be difficult to get out of the muddy
ditch. “Well, I’ll have a try,” she decided. “Here goes!”

She tried to rock the car gently back and forth to gain momentum. The
right tires spun crazily and sank lower into the mire.

Nancy tried again. No use. She feared it might be some time before a car
would come along in this deserted area. Finally she decided to search
for some objects to force under the right wheels for traction.

Just then, Nancy heard an automobile approaching. “Thank goodness!” she
murmured a moment later. “A State Police car.”

It drew up and parked at the side of the road. A young officer hopped
out.

“Having trouble, miss?” he asked. “Lieutenant Brice, Benton State Police
Barracks,” he said pleasantly.

Nancy introduced herself, then explained. He asked if she had noted the
truck’s license plates. “No,” she replied, but described the truck and
the chrome eagle ornament on its hood.

Lieutenant Brice said that if he found the truck, he would see that the
driver was brought to court.

“I have a tow chain in my car. I’ll try to pull you out. Keep the engine
in gear.”

Five minutes later the convertible was out of the ditch. Nancy thanked
the trooper for his help, then drove off.

It was almost six o’clock when Nancy pulled into the Lilac Inn parking
lot. She went at once to the patio, where the Willoughbys, Maud, Helen,
and John were gathered.

“I’m glad you could return in time for supper, Nancy,” said Mrs.
Willoughby.

The others plied the girl detective with questions about the Drews’
burglar. Nancy gave an account of her day’s experiences, concluding with
the reckless truck driver.

“Why, how terrible!” Emily exclaimed.

“The nerve of someone impersonating you!” Helen bristled.

Nancy smiled wryly. “I’d certainly like to know what the girl’s purpose
is.”

Abruptly, Maud changed the subject. To Emily she said, “I dropped into
the Empire Employment Agency this morning. A waitress walked in to
apply, so I told her to report here tomorrow for an interview. Her name
is Jean Holmes.”

“But I asked—” Emily broke off when Nancy gave her a warning look.

Maud evidently did not notice this, and added sweetly, “I knew another
waitress was needed here. I just wanted to make myself useful.”

“I see. Thank you,” Emily said coolly.

Later, after Maud had excused herself to dress for supper, Emily burst
out, “Maud makes me so angry! Why doesn’t she tend to her own job!”

“Don’t pick on her, dear!” Mrs. Willoughby retorted. “She’s had a hard
enough time lately.” Rising, Emily’s aunt said she wanted to confer with
Mr. Daly and went off.

The four young people were left alone. Nancy asked Emily how Maud had
been chosen as social director for Lilac Inn.

“Aunt Hazel asked us to,” Emily replied. In a whisper she added, “I wish
Maud would concentrate more on our recreational program. Nancy, why did
you give me the high-sign?”

Nancy told of having seen Maud enter the agency, and of being informed
by the manager later that no one had inquired about a waitress.

Emily sighed. “I’ll be so glad when Dick gets back. Especially if any
more strange things happen around here.”

“Emily, you’ve nothing to worry about,” John declared. “Everything will
be fine.”

The young man stood up, saying he had a supper engagement in town.
“Sorry I’ll miss the festivities, Emily. I’ll see your glittering gems
later.”

Emily, her face brightening, explained to Nancy that her aunt had
planned a festive meal that evening. “To celebrate my receiving the
diamonds.”

“That’ll be fun,” Nancy said. “Helen, let’s go now and change our
clothes.”

The two girls took the suitcases from Nancy’s convertible. As they
unpacked in the cottage and dressed, Helen discussed Nancy’s
impersonator.

“It’s positively creepy, Nancy,” she said worriedly. “Your double
doesn’t sound like an ordinary thief.”

The girls quickly finished dressing. Nancy had put on a pink sheath
dress and pumps. Helen wore an aqua organdy. They went to the patio
where Emily joined them a minute later. She said that Jean Holmes, the
waitress, had arrived unexpectedly for her interview. The girl had
explained that she had heard of a second position, and wanted to make a
decision immediately.

“Jean seems quite satisfactory,” Emily stated. “She’ll move in here
tomorrow and start work.”

Maud Potter joined the girls. “I’m so glad you approve my choice,
Emily,” she said ingratiatingly. “Now, let’s have supper and see your
diamonds.”

Emily led the group to a small private dining room which opened off the
larger room and overlooked a garden. They said good evening to Mr. Daly
who stood just outside the connecting door.

Mrs. Willoughby was waiting for them near an open window and greeted
Emily with a “Happy Birthday in advance, dear!”

“Oh, thank you, Aunt Hazel. Everything looks divine!”

All the girls admired the table, set with gleaming silver, a creamy lace
cloth, and a beautiful birthday cake surrounded by red roses for a
centerpiece. Soft light from colonial wall fixtures completed the
picture, as shadows danced on the old paneled walls.

Emily’s aunt beamed. “I want everything to be perfect tonight,” she
said.

Mrs. Willoughby sat at one end of the table, her back to the open
windows, Emily opposite her. By the time the main course was finished,
it was almost dark outside. Then the candles were lighted on the cake
and everyone joined in singing “Happy Birthday” as Emily blew out the
candles.

[Illustration: Nancy realized what the sale of the diamonds would mean
to Lilac Inn]

After dessert, Mrs. Willoughby asked Mr. Daly to close the door to the
private dining room. The elderly man nodded understandingly and shut the
door.

Mrs. Willoughby withdrew a white velvet jewel case from her handbag.
Getting up, she went to place it on the table before Emily, then
returned to her chair. With a smile she said:

“This is a wonderful moment for you, Emily dear—the inheritance from
your mother. I only hope these gems will bring you happiness.”

Nancy noticed that Emily’s hands trembled slightly as she opened the
case. Everyone gasped. Against the white satin lining were the twenty
diamonds which glowed and flashed.

“Oh!” Emily exclaimed. “Aren’t they beautiful!” She set the box on the
table.

Maud stared in fascination, and Nancy and Helen expressed their delight
at Emily’s good fortune. Nancy realized what the sale of these gems
would mean in financial assistance to Lilac Inn.

Emily arose and gave her aunt a hug and kiss. “Oh, Aunt Hazel, you’re a
love. I’m sure Mother would understand my wanting to use the gems for my
future and Dick’s.”

Suddenly the group was startled by a clattering crash from the adjoining
dining room. Simultaneously, the lights went out. Nancy hurriedly rose
and flicked the wall switch back and forth, but the room remained dark.

“Mr. Daly,” called Emily, opening the door, “will you please check the
fuse box in the cellar?”

“I will,” he replied. “I think a main circuit’s blown—all our lights
are out.”

“Oh, dear,” fretted Mrs. Willoughby. “What a trying bother!”

“Yes. These old buildings are so undependable,” Maud said crossly.
“Something’s always breaking down.”

“This can happen in a modern one, too,” Nancy said in defense of Lilac
Inn. Maud merely sniffed in annoyance.

To everyone’s relief, John was heard shouting from the garden, “Hold
everything! I’ll be right in!”

But as John stepped through the open window, the lights came on again.
The next instant Emily, returning to her chair, gave a horrified cry.

“My diamonds! They’re gone!”

The others gasped in disbelief. Hazel Willoughby, ash-white, stared at
the place on the table where the velvet case had rested. Then she
pitched forward in a faint.

“Oh!” Emily sobbed fearfully.

“Your aunt will be all right,” said Nancy, who had jumped up. Quickly
she and Helen dampened napkins with ice water from the tumblers and
applied these to the woman’s head and wrists. In a few seconds Mrs.
Willoughby revived.

“I’m sorry,” she apologized weakly. “Such an awful shock—the diamonds
vanishing into thin air.”

Emily insisted that her aunt go to her room and lie down.

“I’ll be all right, dear. Really. What do we do now?” Mrs. Willoughby
looked around helplessly.

“We’d better keep this to ourselves,” John said. “Otherwise, dinner
guests will be upset. I’ll check outside for prowlers. However, the
thief didn’t go out this window.”

Nancy decided to do some sleuthing for the thief in the building and
hurried into the main dining room. The only guests were two elderly
women, waiting to pay their bill. Nancy learned from them that the
waitress Anna had accidentally dropped a tray, which caused the
clattering noise just before the lights went out. The ladies were sure
that no one else but Mr. Daly had been in the room at the time.

Nancy next went into the kitchen, where the cooks and waitresses were
cleaning up after the evening meal. The girl detective asked where each
of them had been when the inn was plunged into darkness. All the women
except Anna replied that they had been in the kitchen.

Anna gave Nancy a curious look. “Why do you ask?”

The young detective explained that Emily Willoughby wanted to be sure no
one had been hurt by an unexpected fall during the blackout.

Nancy left the kitchen and hurriedly went through the other first-floor
rooms, but saw no one. As she walked back toward the private dining
room, Nancy met Mr. Daly in the lobby. He told her that he had found
nothing wrong with the lighting system.

“I can’t understand what happened,” he said, then added, “I just heard
from Emily about the missing jewels. How dreadful!”

John came in at that moment and said he had found no prowler on the
grounds. “By this time the jewel thief is undoubtedly far away,” he
concluded.

As Nancy returned with him to the private dining room, she was deep in
thought. Logically, the only ones who could have taken the diamonds were
she and her four dining companions! “But that’s absolutely unlikely,”
Nancy told herself. She reported her findings to the others.

Maud Potter’s eyes narrowed. “I suppose you think Emily should search
us!” she said nastily to Nancy.

“Maud!” Emily protested. “Nancy meant no such thing.”

Maud paid no attention, but turned on Mrs. Willoughby, who was still
pale. “You can blame yourself, Hazel—announcing in a public dining room
this morning that you were going to get Emily’s diamonds!”

“I know.” Mrs. Willoughby sighed. But Emily put a comforting arm around
her, and gave Maud a look of disapproval.

“Let’s all search this room,” Nancy proposed quickly. “We might find
some clue.”

Everyone but Maud readily agreed. She sat sullen-faced, while the others
looked carefully in corners and under tables and chairs.

Nancy herself was scrutinizing the area where Emily had sat. Suddenly
her keen eyes spotted three tiny pale-purple lilac buds on the floor.
One—two—three—she counted, then saw a fourth bud lying near the wall
to the right of Emily’s chair. Aside from the centerpiece, there were no
other flowers in the room.

“How did lilac buds get in here?” Nancy mused. There was no sign of
footprints near them.

Saying nothing, Nancy picked one up. It was fresh. She looked at the
wall thoughtfully and closely.

Everyone watched in amazement as the titian-blond girl began to tap the
wall, then listen intently.

Nancy motioned them not to say a word. She continued tapping, until she
tried one spot which sounded different. It had a hollow ring. Nancy
pressed against the wooden wall. Suddenly a panel slid aside
noiselessly.

John and the others gaped in astonishment as the panel in the wall slid
open. “Nancy, you’re terrific!” John exclaimed, handing her his
flashlight.

Everyone crowded behind Nancy, as she beamed the light into a
wood-walled closet. It had a musty odor.

“I don’t remember seeing this in the floor plans of the inn,” Emily
said, puzzled, as Nancy stooped and shone the flash on something on the
floor. It was a crushed, but still fresh lilac flower!

“It was those other blossoms which made me think there might be a
concealed entrance into this room.”

“Nancy, you’re a genius,” said Mrs. Willoughby. “I never dreamed this
spot was here. The thief must have been hiding in the closet.”

“But where did he go?” John asked.

Nancy was feeling the rear wall of the closet. Her fingers touched a
small metal latch. She turned it. A second panel slid open soundlessly.
Beyond was the coat closet off the lobby of the inn!

“This must be how the jewel thief got in and out of this dining room,”
Nancy announced. She walked on into the lobby, followed by the others.

“Look!” Helen exclaimed, and pointed to a lilac bud near the front door.

Nancy examined the bud which proved to be fresh and moist. “The thief
probably wore a sprig of lilacs. That makes me think the person was a
woman.”

Mr. Daly agreed with Nancy. He admitted that he had not known of the
hidden closet, and was perplexed as to who could have learned of it.

“These panel openings must have fallen into disuse before I purchased
the inn,” he remarked.

“One thing’s certain,” said Nancy. “The thief not only has an intimate
knowledge of the original floor plan of Lilac Inn but also knew two
other things: that Emily was to receive her diamonds tonight, and where
Mrs. Willoughby was to present them.”

“Too bad I didn’t get back sooner tonight,” said John, frowning. “I
might have met the thief. Incidentally, she must have had an accomplice
to work the lighting system.”

“But how could they communicate at just the right moment if one of them
was in the cellar?” Helen asked.

“I can answer that,” said Mr. Daly. “The panel board for the light
control is directly under that private dining room. The floor is worn so
thin that conversation upstairs can be heard down there.”

Nancy nodded. “After the person in the cellar was sure the thief was
hidden again, he or she turned on the lights to make the whole thing
look like a temporary outside power failure.”

“What shall we do now?” Maud asked nervously.

“Call the police immediately,” Nancy advised.

“No!” Emily cried out.

Everyone looked at her in surprise. Emily flushed, but remained adamant.

“If people hear we’ve had a robbery,” she argued, “it may discourage
them from coming to Lilac Inn. Calling in the police will mean newspaper
publicity. Dick and I have worked too hard to risk it.”

“It will be a shame if you don’t recover the diamonds,” Helen spoke up.
“But if you report the theft, at least you can collect the insurance,
Emily, and use that money for the inn as you planned.”

At this remark Mrs. Willoughby’s face again turned ash-white and the
others thought she was about to faint again. “Insurance. Insurance,” she
said hoarsely. “There isn’t any! I thought the jewels were safe in the
bank vault and let the insurance policy lapse!”

Everyone listening was stunned and tears came to Emily’s eyes. She
turned to Nancy and asked in a trembling voice, “What shall I do?”

It was Helen who spoke up. “Have Nancy take over the case of your
missing diamonds, Emily. I guarantee she’ll unearth them!”

All the others backed Helen’s suggestion eagerly except Maud. The social
director merely raised her eyebrows.

The amateur sleuth smiled. “I’ll be glad to do what I can, Emily, but
this is a big assignment. If I don’t succeed very soon, will you promise
to notify the police?”

“It’s a bargain, Nancy.”

John whistled. “Miss Nancy Drew, detective, you’re not going to have
much time for skin diving.”

Nancy laughed. “I’ll find time.”

John cautioned the Willoughbys to make sure all first-floor doors and
windows were kept locked at night. He himself went outside to make
another tour of the grounds. Emily reassured her unhappy aunt and
persuaded her to go to bed. Maud said she would follow.

The three girls decided to check the window and door locks in the
various rooms. Emily took the kitchen and offices, while Nancy and Helen
headed for the other rooms. Minutes later they met in the lobby to
report everything locked.

Helen gave a huge sigh. “Nancy, aren’t you exhausted after all this
excitement?”

Nancy admitted that she was a bit tired. “Two burglaries in one day and
a car mishap are quite enough.” She smiled wearily. “Helen, what’s your
theory about the theft of Emily’s diamonds?”

The dark-haired girl hesitated. “I’m sure it’s an outside job but—”

“Out with it, Miss Corning,” Nancy urged. “Whom do you suspect?”

“John McBride!” her friend blurted. “I like him very much, but he was
away most of today. Yet Emily said he was here to help fix up the inn
during Dick’s absence.”

“Yes, she did,” Nancy admitted. “But I can’t believe John has anything
to do with either the theft or the mysterious happenings at Lilac Inn.”

The young sleuth’s eyes had been roving back and forth across the floor,
since it was instinctive with her to be hunting for clues whenever a
mystery confronted her. Something glinted in a corner under a chair. She
went to pick it up as Emily came into the lobby.

“What is it?” Emily asked.

“Believe it or not, it’s my stolen charge plate!” Nancy answered. “I may
be jumping to conclusions, but I’m sure now that my impersonator is the
jewel thief. She dropped the charge plate from her pocket or purse,
probably when she put the jewel case in it.”

“This is positively eerie,” Helen remarked. “Maybe that fake Nancy
dropped something else.”

The girls started a search and presently Helen found a tiny envelope,
farther under the chair. Nancy’s name and address were typed on it!

“The charge plate must have been in this and slid out,” she said. “My
impersonator must have decided to type the envelope to be sure that she
did not make a mistake when the clerks at Burk’s Department Store asked
for her address for the sales slips. I notice the letter _a_ is faint.”

Suddenly Nancy chuckled. “Em, you didn’t want the police notified about
the jewel theft, but here’s a chance to get police help without telling
them.”

“How?”

“Chief McGinnis knows that my charge plate was stolen by an
impersonator,” Nancy answered. “With this typed clue, maybe he can find
her. And I suspect that when he does, _your_ thief will be caught!”

Nancy called Chief McGinnis at his home. She told him about the charge
plate and envelope, and her suspicion that her impersonator, though not
known to the inn’s owners, must have been there.

“Please send the plate and envelope to me for fingerprint analysis,”
Chief McGinnis requested.

Nancy promised she would and hung up, wishing she could have reported
the jewel theft to him. It was after eleven o’clock when Helen and Nancy
said good night to Emily and walked to their cottage. Both girls fell
asleep almost as soon as their heads touched the pillows. But around
three in the morning, Nancy was partially awakened by a noise.

“What was that?” she thought, looking around the cottage with sleepy
eyes. She listened. But all was silent now. Finally Nancy went back to
sleep.

She awoke at seven. Helen was still asleep. Nancy put on a casual
sweater and skirt and loafers. She tiptoed from the cabin and headed for
the inn. No one else seemed to be outside.

For the next half hour Nancy looked near the front door for footprints,
lilac buds, or anything else to give her a clue to the jewel thief. She
found nothing.

She strolled around back and met Hank, the gardener, who greeted her
pleasantly and said he had decided not to give up his job. “My injured
leg’s better. But I have other worries now,” he said. “Some outdoor
equipment was taken last night from the tool shed.”

“Really?” said Nancy. “What?”

Hank led her to the small wooden structure used by the outdoor workers.
“We’re missing several shovels, rakes, some wire, and small parts,” said
Hank. “But worst of all, an expensive jig saw that Mr. Farnham just
bought is gone.”

“More thefts,” thought Nancy. Aloud she asked, “Is the shed locked at
night?”

Hank said it was, and that he was responsible for securing the shed
after work. “Probably none of the other men thought to ask Miss
Willoughby for the spare key to lock up when I wasn’t here.”

Nancy examined the soft dirt outside the shed. There were a number of
footprints, all blurred and leading in different directions. As Jim,
Gil, and Luke—the three other gardeners—reported for work, Nancy
questioned each of them in turn. They confessed that they had forgotten
to lock the shed, and said they had no idea who might have taken the
tools. Before Nancy left the men, she suggested that Hank search the
grounds once more before reporting the theft.

As Nancy started up the front porch steps of the inn a few minutes
later, she was hailed by John McBride. “Look what I found!” he cried
triumphantly.

_He held out Emily’s white velvet jewel case!_

“John, you found the diamonds!” Nancy exclaimed.

The young man opened the case and displayed its contents. The twenty
diamonds, of various sizes, glinted in the morning sunlight.

“Astounding, isn’t it?” John grinned, adding that he had found the case
under one of the lobby windows. “I must have missed it last night.”

“Will you show me the spot, please? I must have missed it too.”

John led Nancy to a clump of China-blue lilac bushes, and pointed out
the place where he had found the case.

“The thief must have dropped this, but I can’t figure out why she didn’t
come back for it,” John remarked.

“She may not have known until later that she had dropped it. By that
time she probably was afraid of being caught,” Nancy replied.

Just then Emily came outside. She was beside herself with joy upon
seeing the jewels.

“John, you’re a darling!” she cried. “Let’s go to the patio and tell the
others.”

“Isn’t this wonderful?” Mrs. Willoughby exclaimed. “And none of the
diamonds is missing!” she added, counting.

“Are you sure?” Maud gave John and Nancy suspicious looks.

Nancy was about to make a sharp retort but refrained. The social
director seemed determined to be unpleasant, and the young sleuth
decided to ignore her insinuating remark. John just looked amused.

“Aunt Hazel,” said Emily, “I think these jewels should be put in a safe
place at once. Since I’m going to sell them, I think our jeweler friend
in Benton, Mr. Fabian, is the person to keep them. And he can also make
a new appraisal of the diamonds.”

Emily’s aunt nodded. “I’m so happy for you, dear.”

Emily continued, “I might sell a few of the smaller diamonds today. We
need cash immediately to take care of some outstanding bills.”

Just then, Hank walked up to the group to tell Emily of the
disappearance of the tools. The gardener asserted that he had conducted
a thorough search.

An interested expression came over John’s face and he said, “I’ll
search.” Nancy wondered if anything unusual lay back of his offer.

Everyone went inside to breakfast. When the meal was finished, Mrs.
Willoughby said to Emily, “I’d ride in to town with you, but I have a
headache.”

Emily insisted that her aunt rest. “Nancy and Helen will go with me, I’m
sure.”

The girls said they would be happy to. At once Maud asked if she might
join the group. “All right,” Emily said without enthusiasm.

Before they left, Nancy telephoned Hannah Gruen, reporting the loss and
recovery of the diamonds and the finding of the charge plate. She
chuckled. “Actually I’m out of a sleuthing job, Hannah, so I’ll see you
soon.”

“But you haven’t found out who your impersonator is,” the housekeeper
said. “She may keep on making trouble for you.”

“You’re right. I must find her. Now tell me about yourself.”

The Drews’ housekeeper reported an uneventful night and that a police
guard was still posted at the house. “Your father wired he would be
detained until tomorrow evening.”

“Well, I’ll be seeing you. ’Bye now.”

On the ride to Benton, Nancy and Emily decided it was best not to
mention to the jeweler the disappearance of her diamonds the previous
night. “Even though I have them back, exaggerated stories might still
get around.”

When the group entered Fabian’s Jewelry Store, Emily asked to see the
owner. The pleasant-faced man greeted her cordially and was introduced
to the other girls. Then Emily opened her jewel case.

“My, what a lovely collection of stones!” Mr. Fabian exclaimed.

He picked up a small diamond and studied it closely. Frowning, he put on
his jeweler’s eyepiece, examined the gem, then dropped it into the case.
Diamond after diamond was scrutinized in this manner. Emily watched
anxiously.

When Mr. Fabian put down the last gem he looked hard at Emily. “Is this
a practical joke?” he asked. “These stones are only glass!”

Emily’s face blanched. Helen and Maud were speechless.

Nancy was dismayed. Had the thief planted fake stones for some sinister
purpose? “What is it?” she asked herself.

The jeweler was saying, “These are excellent imitations, Emily. Where
did they come from?”

“Why—er—they were my mother’s. I always thought they were real.”

“I’m sorry,” The jeweler smiled sympathetically, as he handed the case
to Emily. Almost in a daze, she thanked him and the others followed her
from the shop.

As they stood outside the store, Nancy and Helen tried to comfort their
friend. “It’s a shame,” Helen said.

“It . . . it’s the jinx again . . .” Emily sobbed. “I should have known.
Oh, poor Dick! All our plans are spoiled.”

“I’m not so sure,” Nancy said. “I have a feeling the thief substituted
these fakes for the real diamonds. I know it sounds funny . . .”

“Huh!” Maud exclaimed. Turning to Nancy, she said, “An awful lot of
funny things have happened since you came to Lilac Inn.”

“That’s enough, Maud!” Emily brushed away her tears. “I won’t have you
insulting my friends. Anyway, maybe Nancy’s right.”

“Oh, I forgot. Nancy’s a famous detective!” Maud said sarcastically.

Helen and Nancy kept still with difficulty. Nancy wondered why Maud had
become so antagonistic toward her.

In silence, the four reached Nancy’s car. As the others got in, Nancy
stopped a newsboy to buy a River Heights morning paper. Nancy opened her
change purse. Simultaneously, a woman coming from the opposite direction
jostled Nancy’s arm.

The purse dropped to the pavement, scattering change in every direction.

“Oh, bother!” Nancy exclaimed.

Emily jumped out of the car to help retrieve the money. A moment later
she gave a startled cry and pointed to the ground.

_Lying beside the ten-cent piece was a small diamond brilliantly
reflecting the sunlight!_

The expression on Nancy’s face brought Helen and Maud hurrying from the
car. Emily picked up the diamond.

“Is this yours, Nancy?” she asked.

“N-no, I never saw it before,” Nancy stammered, completely astounded.

Maud looked smug. “Try and make anyone believe that. It’s one of your
diamonds, Emily!”

Nancy was too horrified to speak. Helen came to her friend’s defense.
Glaring at Maud, she declared, “If Nancy says she knows nothing about
how the diamond got in her change purse, it’s true!”

“Of course it is,” Emily backed her up. “Oh Maud, why are you always so
hateful?” Turning to Nancy, she said, “Someone has tried to throw
suspicion on you. But why?”

“I don’t know,” Nancy replied. “If that’s the case, I wonder if that
woman who bumped me might be in league with the jewel thief.” To herself
she added, “Maybe my impersonator is trying to throw suspicion on me!”

She paid the boy for the paper, then asked him and the others if they
had noticed the woman. Unfortunately none of them had.

Nancy suggested that they have the new-found stone appraised, so the
group re-entered Fabian’s. The jeweler was surprised but obligingly put
on his eyepiece.

“This is a perfect one-carat diamond!” he exclaimed. “If you’re
interested in selling, I’ll be happy to make an offer.”

“Not today, but I may be back.” Emily smiled.

She and her friends returned to the convertible and Nancy headed for
Lilac Inn. She speculated to herself on the imitation gems. “The thief
learned the number and shapes of Emily’s diamonds, and had the
artificial ones made to match as closely as possible. Very clever.”

Her thoughts were broken into by Maud asking Emily, “When are you going
to tell Dick about the theft of your jewels?”

“When I get ready,” was the cool reply.

As they turned into the Lilac Inn driveway, Emily sighed. “Aunt Hazel
will be dreadfully upset to hear about the substitution of the gems.”

“It’ll put her to bed for a week,” Maud prophesied unfeelingly. “Well,
I’ll see you all at lunch.”

The noon meal was a rather uncomfortable one. Mrs. Willoughby was
obviously dejected and ate little. Maud maintained an almost sulky
silence. Nancy was preoccupied, though somewhat disappointed that John
was not present. Also, a startling idea had come to her about the
diamond in her purse: The noise which had awakened her during the night
might have been made by an intruder leaving, perhaps by the bathroom
window, after planting the diamond.

After luncheon Anna the waitress beckoned Nancy aside and handed her a
note. “I just took this message from Mr. McBride on the phone. I was
passing the desk and answered the ring.”

Nancy thanked the girl and read the message. “Nancy: I’ve found an
important clue to the case. Come in your canoe to the dock where you saw
the man with the crew cut. Wear your diving gear.”

Nancy was intrigued. What was John’s discovery? What kind of clue would
necessitate underwater equipment?

Since Maud was there, Nancy merely told the others she had a date with
John, saying, “Dad warned me not to go anywhere alone, but if John’s
with me, I’ll be safe.” Nancy then hurried to put on her bathing suit.
Over this she slipped her rubber insulation suit. Then, carrying mask,
aqualung, flippers, and an underwater camera on a strap around her neck,
she went to the dock.

Soon Nancy was paddling her canoe down the river, scanning the shore
ahead for the place near which she and Helen had capsized. She finally
sighted the dock where Helen had seen the man in the rowboat. On the
bank nearby was a blue canoe with _Lilac Inn_ painted on its side.

“John!” called Nancy, looking about. No answer. Again Nancy called his
name. Silence.

A little distance beyond the dock the girl noticed a man fishing from
the beach. He wore a wide-brimmed straw hat. Cupping her hands, Nancy
called out and asked if he had seen the young man who had come in the
canoe.

“Yeah,” the fisherman yelled in a nasal voice. “He went underwater a
couple of minutes ago—dived into the middle of the river opposite his
canoe.”

“Thanks.” Nancy was mystified. Why hadn’t John waited for her to arrive?
He knew it was dangerous for anyone to go skin diving alone.

Hurriedly she beached her own craft, donned her mask and aqualung, and
slipped on the flippers. Then she swam out to the middle of the river.

She made a quick dive to begin her descent. As she straightened out,
Nancy kicked with her fins and propelled herself with her arms. The
water became darker and cooler as she descended. Small fish flitted by.
Presently Nancy realized she was nearing the bottom. She estimated that
the river was about twenty feet deep at this spot.

When she reached the muddy floor, she glanced about in every direction.
There was no sign of John—only underwater plants and several large
rocks.

Nancy swam cautiously and watched for crevices as she went forward.
Every moment she expected to see John. Had he been underwater long? Had
he met with a freak accident and been hurt? Even an expert skin diver
can overestimate his physical abilities, she realized.

All of a sudden Nancy stopped abruptly. Her eyes widened and a chill
went up her spine. Protruding from a massive rocky overhang was
something that resembled a shark’s head!

“It can’t be!” she gasped inwardly. “Sharks don’t live in fresh water!”

The sinister shape, however, was far too large to be an ordinary fish.
Nancy’s fear gave way to curiosity, as the object remained stationary.
She inched forward, holding the camera in front of her and cocking the
shutter. Three more strokes and she would have a good view of the
mysterious form.

One—two— Nancy was about to shoot, when a slight movement in the water
caused her to whirl around. A spear came hurtling from behind a big rock
to Nancy’s right. The next moment the tip of the spear lodged in the
lens of her camera!

Nancy’s heart thumped wildly as the spear quivered in her camera.
Someone had tried to injure her! Why?

The girl detective’s first instinct was to avoid further danger and rise
to the surface as quickly as possible. But she paused to look around for
the spear thrower. There was no sign of him.

“He may be getting ready for another attack, though,” she thought. “I’d
better not take a chance.”

Gripping the camera, with the embedded spear, in both hands, she swam
upward. At the surface, Nancy set out for shore and climbed to the dock.
She glanced about for the fisherman, but he was not there.

Nancy removed her skin-diving gear, then examined the stainless-steel
spear. It was the simplest type used for underwater fishing. The weapon
was six feet long, with a sharp, thin tip. Nancy shuddered as she pulled
it from the lens of her camera.

“I’d better go back to the inn,” she thought. “Dad was right about it
being dangerous for me to be alone.”

Nancy had been preoccupied with her narrow escape. Now she suddenly
remembered John. To her astonishment, the Lilac Inn canoe was gone. Had
John surfaced while Nancy was underwater, and, not seeing her, returned
to the inn? Also, she wondered whether John was the skin diver seen by
the fisherman on the river.

Nancy’s head whirled with theories as she pushed her canoe into the
water and stepped into it. Recalling the strange, sharklike object, she
thought, “Perhaps the spear thrower didn’t want me to photograph the
object? And was that what John meant about a clue?”

As Nancy tied up at the inn dock, she saw that the blue canoe was there.
“Well, anyway, he’s back.”

As the young sleuth headed for her cottage, she heard Helen call. Nancy
stopped, and Helen, Emily, and Mrs. Willoughby hurried forward. They
stared aghast at the spear in Nancy’s hand.

“N-Nancy! You’ve been in danger!” Helen gasped.

Nancy gave a wry smile. Just then John McBride, dressed in slacks and
sports shirt, hurried toward the group.

Before Nancy had a chance to question him, John exclaimed, “Fine thing,
Nancy Drew! Standing me up to go skin diving!”

“Standing you up?” Nancy retorted. “Where were you?”

“In the apple orchard,” John replied. “Waiting for you, where I said I’d
be.”

Nancy shook her head. “There’s been a horrible mix-up. I’ll tell my
story first.”

When she had finished, John and the others expressed amazement and
concern.

“Nancy,” the young man said, “I didn’t phone any message to you. Someone
else did, apparently to keep you from seeing me in the orchard.”

“What’s all this about the orchard?” Nancy demanded.

John reminded her that at eleven o’clock she had hailed him from the
patio. “I had just returned after failing to find the missing tools. You
were wearing the pink dress you had on the night before. You said you
had something to discuss with me, and asked if I would meet you at
twelve-thirty in the apple orchard. I said I’d be glad to.”

“Why, I was in Benton at eleven o’clock!” Nancy exclaimed. “I wasn’t the
girl you talked to!”

John looked dumfounded. “But the girl sounded and looked exactly like
you.” He added that he had taken a sandwich with him to the orchard, but
left at one-thirty, deciding that Nancy had changed her mind.

Emily caught her breath. “Oh, Nancy! It must have been the girl who is
impersonating you!”

John nodded somberly. “I’m afraid so. I sure was fooled. And someone
wanted to get you away from here and even harm you, perhaps fatally!”

Helen looked distressed, and Mrs. Willoughby wrung her hands. “We must
report all this to the police immediately. No one at Lilac Inn is safe.”

Emily, though concerned, still held back. “Please—not until Dick gets
home tomorrow. In the meantime, Nancy may solve the mystery.”

Her aunt reluctantly agreed. Nancy had been silent, trying to fit the
various elements of the puzzle together. It was evident to her that her
“twin” had firsthand knowledge as to where she and others at the inn
would be at certain times. Nancy was certain the girl’s actions further
indicated accomplices, and dangerous ones at that, judging from the
spear thrower. Offhand, Nancy could not imagine anyone at the inn being
involved in such scheming, not even Maud.

“Has anything else been stolen?” she asked abruptly.

“I haven’t heard of any losses,” Emily replied.

“What’s the next move, Detective Drew?” Helen spoke up.

“I’m not sure,” Nancy replied thoughtfully. “But I do agree, for the
time being, it would be best not to have the police investigate either
the river or the inn. Since our enemies apparently want me out of the
way, it must mean they want to stay here. Let’s hope we can catch them
before they decide to leave!”

John changed the subject. “I’d like to investigate the place in the
river where you saw that ‘shark,’ Nancy. Also, I’ll try to find out who
used the inn’s canoe. See you later.”

Nancy returned to her cottage. She put away the skin-diving gear and set
the spear in the closet.

“I’d better hang on to this for evidence, even though there probably
aren’t any fingerprints on it except mine.”

She took out her pink dress. It looked crisp and fresh.

“My impersonator sure is a quick-change artist,” Nancy thought. “She
must have let herself into the cottage while I was in Benton, and
returned the dress while I was at lunch.

“I’d better lock every window and put a padlock on the door,” she
determined, selecting a green cotton dress to wear, “and also make some
inquiries around here. Maybe someone saw a girl enter this cabin.”

A newspaper Helen had bought that morning lay on a table. Absently Nancy
looked at the first page. Suddenly her eyes widened. With interest she
read a report about a red panel truck having been stolen two days
before.

“An identifying mark,” she read further, “is a chrome eagle ornament on
the hood. The truck is believed to be in the vicinity of Benton.”

Was this the truck which had forced her car into the ditch? Lieutenant
Brice must have pursued her lead, and found out that the vehicle had
been stolen.

“No wonder the driver was in such a hurry!” Nancy thought as she left
the cottage.

On the way to join the others, Nancy had a sudden hunch. Mary Mason had
left the inn abruptly, with the flimsy excuse that the place was
haunted. “I never pursued that lead,” the young sleuth told herself.
“Anna was here then. Maybe she knows where Mary Mason is.”

Before joining her friends, Nancy hurried to the kitchen to talk to
Anna. The waitress was not there. A strange girl came up to her, and
introduced herself as Jean Holmes. Jean’s complexion was very pale, and
her brown hair thick and combed close to her face. She wore heavy
glasses.

“Can I help you?” she asked, smiling shyly.

Nancy inquired where Anna was. Jean said she had gone to the storage
cellar. Nancy went downstairs and found Anna bringing out a supply of
preserved fruits and jellies.

“Anna,” Nancy said, “I’m trying to locate Mary Mason who used to work
here. Do you know her home address?”

Anna shook her head, but said she would inquire among the other
waitresses who had been there when Mary was.

“Thank you,” said Nancy, and went to join her group on the patio.

She noticed that Maud Potter was not present. At the first opportunity,
she asked Helen about this.

“Oh, Maud’s been very exclusive. She stayed in her room all afternoon.”
Helen added dryly, “She hasn’t been missed.”

Maud did show up later and went to the dining room with the group. Nancy
asked John if he had been rewarded in his sleuthing.

He shook his head. “I saw no ‘sharks,’ and no one here admits to having
used the canoe.”

This reminded Nancy of the fisherman she had seen on the river. Because
of his hat, she had not been able to tell if his hair was crew cut. But
she wondered if he might be the man Helen had seen after the girls’
canoe had capsized.

At the supper table Nancy confided this idea to her friend in a low
tone. Helen wrinkled her brow. “From the general impression I had of Mr.
Crew Cut, Nancy, he could be the same one. But of course I only saw him
from a distance.”

Both girls became aware that Maud was eying them closely. “Planning
another skin-diving excursion, Nancy?” the woman asked sarcastically.

Mrs. Willoughby hurriedly put in, “Oh, yes. I told Maud the
latest—er—troubles.”

“I should hope so!” Maud said sharply. “If there are dangerous people
lurking around here, I’d like to be warned.”

“Nancy’s the one in danger,” Emily reminded Maud coldly.

To change the subject, Nancy observed, “The new waitress, Jean Holmes,
seems to be very efficient.”

Maud tossed her head. “I do have an instinct about people, you know.”
But she was clearly pleased at Nancy’s remark.

After supper Nancy was leaving the room with the others when Anna came
up behind her. “I have some information for you, Miss Drew,” the
waitress whispered. “Mary Mason mostly kept to herself, but Kitty, one
of the girls, thinks Mary commuted to Dockville every night. She also
remembers that Mary once worked for a Mrs. Ernest Stonewell in River
Heights.”

“You’re very helpful, Anna,” Nancy said. “Thank you.”

Nancy went to the hall desk and picked up a telephone directory. There
were several Masons listed in Dockville, which was near River Heights.
The young sleuth dialed the number of each Mason. Nobody knew Mary, the
waitress. Nancy now looked up Mrs. Ernest Stonewell’s address.

“I’ll call her tomorrow.”

The rest of the evening Nancy spent playing a lively game of ping-pong
with Helen, Emily, and John. Around eleven o’clock everyone said good
night. John walked with the two girls to their cottage and warned them
to secure the new inside bolt on the door, as well as the bathroom
window. “I’m within calling distance if you need me.” He smiled.

“Thanks, John,” said Nancy. “Every window sill in the bedroom will have
a book on it. If any intruder tries getting in, I hope he won’t notice
the book, and will knock it off and wake us!”

Before going to sleep, Nancy thought happily that her father would soon
be home. How much she had to tell him!

Helen, in the meantime, was wide awake. She tossed and turned
restlessly. Finally, at midnight, she got up and put on her bathrobe and
slippers.

“Maybe some fresh air will help me sleep,” Helen thought.

Despite John’s warning, she slid the bolt and left the cottage, closing
the door quietly. The grounds were dark and silent. Helen turned toward
the lilac grove.

Suddenly she saw a flickering light ahead, near the grove. Curious, she
drew closer. A veiled figure with black hair and wearing a glowing white
gown confronted her. The next instant Helen was struck on the back of
her head and fell unconscious!

Back in the cottage, Nancy was awakened by an insistent ticking. She sat
up and glanced in annoyance at her alarm clock. It certainly seemed
noisy.

Suddenly Nancy realized that her friend’s bed was empty. “Helen?” she
called, thinking that perhaps the other girl had gone to get a glass of
water. There was no reply.

“Where can Helen be at one-thirty in the morning?” Nancy asked herself.
Hurriedly she put on robe and slippers and picked up her flashlight.
When she found the front door of the cottage unbolted, she felt a pang
of alarm.

Outside, Nancy searched the cottage area, calling her friend’s name
again and again. No response. Finally, thoroughly alarmed, Nancy decided
to ask John for help. She knocked on his door. No answer. Perplexed,
Nancy was about to leave when a twig crackled a short distance away. She
turned off her flashlight and crouched behind a low shrub. Who was
approaching? She was relieved a moment later to discern the familiar
outline of John.

“Oh, thank goodness!” Nancy exclaimed, hurrying toward him. “Have you
seen Helen?” she asked. “I woke up and found her gone.”

“No, I haven’t seen her,” John replied. “I couldn’t sleep so I walked
down the road. Come on. We’ll both look.”

They started across the lawn.

“Let’s check the inn first,” Nancy proposed. “Maybe Helen’s there.”

The grounds seemed eerie in the moonless night as the couple walked
quietly, beaming their flashes ahead of them. They circled the inn. The
place was completely dark, with the exception of the tiny night light in
the main lobby.

Nancy suggested they try all the doors. “If one is unlocked, it may mean
Helen is inside.”

The front, rear, patio, and kitchen doors were securely bolted from the
inside.

“Perhaps Helen couldn’t sleep and went for a walk near the river,” John
suggested.

Quickly he and Nancy went to the waterfront. Starting with the area near
the dock, they proceeded along the bank, calling Helen’s name. As they
came to the lilac grove, John said:

“I don’t think—”

He was interrupted by a low moan which came from beyond a lilac bush.
The couple hurried toward it, with Nancy focusing the beam of her
flashlight on the ground.

“Helen!” she exclaimed in horror.

Before them lay her friend, unconscious.

Quickly Nancy and John knelt beside Helen. John held the flashlight
while Nancy made a rapid examination. Helen’s pulse was normal, but
there was an ugly lump on the back of her head.

John looked grim as Nancy chafed Helen’s wrists. “She must have been
struck by a blunt instrument,” he said.

Helen’s eyelids flickered open. For a moment the girl looked terrified,
then smiled feebly as she recognized John and Nancy.

“Wh-what happened?” she murmured.

“Don’t talk,” Nancy said soothingly, but Helen insisted upon sitting up.

“Oh, my head!” she groaned, and leaned against Nancy.

A few minutes later the injured girl was able to talk. She explained
about leaving the cabin and walking toward the lilac grove, then told of
the strange figure in white she had seen.

Helen described the long translucent robe the figure had worn. “The last
thing I saw was that ghostly figure waving her arms back and forth, as
if signaling to someone. Then I was struck on the head and blacked out.”

“Don’t talk any more now,” said John, as Helen sighed wearily. “We’ll go
back to the cottage and Nancy will put you to bed.”

John carried Helen, and with Nancy’s guiding light, headed toward the
cottage. They had hardly started when the trio was startled by a loud
_boo-oo-m_! It seemed to come from the direction of the cottages!

“That sounded like an explosion!” cried Nancy. She broke into a run.

John, carrying Helen, followed as fast as he could. A moment later Nancy
heard a crackling noise and smelled smoke.

“John!” Nancy cried in horror. “Look! Our cottage is on fire!”

The young people stared ahead in dismay. Tongues of orange-red flames
were indeed shooting upward from the girls’ cottage! The trio could
already feel the heat from the blaze.

“We’ll have to douse it,” John said tensely. “The whole row will burn
down if we wait for the fire department.”

Helen insisted she was strong enough to walk. “I can help!”

John raced to the side of the inn where an extension water hose was
attached. “Get the buckets near the kitchen door!” he shouted to the
girls.

They dashed toward the inn. At the same time, the hall lights came on
and the front door was flung open. Emily, Maud, and Mrs. Willoughby,
dressed in robes, rushed out. Behind them was Mr. Daly, carrying a
Revolutionary War musket!

Each group was amazed to see the other but Nancy took no time asking
questions. “Our cottage is on fire!” she announced.

Soon everyone joined in tossing bucket after bucket of water from a
garden spigot onto the blaze. John played a steady stream from the hose.
Gradually the blaze was reduced to embers.

“Glad we saved the other units, anyhow,” John said, glancing at the
ruined guest cottage. “Too bad you girls lost all your clothes.”

[Illustration]

“But saved our lives by not being in the cottage,” Nancy remarked
grimly.

“How did the fire start? What caused that explosion?” Emily asked,
explaining that she and the others had been awakened by the noise.

“I believe,” Nancy said gravely, “it was caused by a time bomb which
someone placed in our cottage before we went to bed. A ticking sound
woke me. I thought it was my clock.”

Her listeners were shocked. Mrs. Willoughby grew deathly pale, as Maud
shrilled, “There must be a lunatic loose around here.”

For once Nancy was inclined to agree with her. The young sleuth added
that of course nothing could be determined until daylight when the ruins
would be examined.

The exhausted group went back to the inn. “Nancy and Helen,” Emily said,
“I feel terrible about this whole thing.”

Mrs. Willoughby, too, expressed her regret. “At least some of the loss
will be covered by our fire insurance,” she added.

Nancy smiled and nodded, then started to relate Helen’s startling
experience just before the fire.

When Nancy came to the part about the woman in the white robe, Emily
shivered. “I don’t believe in ghosts,” she averred, “but Mary Mason
probably saw this person. That’s why she said Lilac Inn was haunted!”

Nancy suddenly noticed how pale Helen was and suggested she get to bed
at once.

“Oh, yes,” said Emily. “Nancy and Helen, take the front second-floor
bedroom.”

Nancy noticed that Mr. Daly still clutched the ancient musket. With a
sheepish smile, he said, “Shortly before the explosion, I thought I
heard someone prowling around outside. I grabbed this old musket—guess
it’s been here since the inn was built. It’s not loaded, but I figured
it might scare away an intruder.”

John grinned. “Nancy and I were your ‘prowlers.’” He explained that they
had tried all the doors in their search for Helen.

The women and girls started upstairs. John and Mr. Daly, carrying his
musket, said they would “stand guard” for the rest of the night.

As Emily showed Nancy and Helen to their room, she said firmly, “This
awful experience has made me decide to call the police first thing in
the morning!”

“Oh, Emily, thank goodness!” Helen exclaimed in relief. “If there _is_
some kind of maniac loose at Lilac Inn, you’ll be doing the right
thing.”

Emily stepped closer to the girls. “When the police arrive,” she
whispered, “I’d appreciate it if you still don’t mention the diamond
theft.”

Her friends, though surprised, promised not to say a word about it.

“You see,” Emily went on softly, “it’s not for my sake, but Aunt
Hazel’s. I can’t explain any more right now. You go to bed. I’ll call
you if I need you.”

Nancy and Helen were too polite to ask further questions. Nevertheless,
Nancy fell asleep wondering about Emily’s request. When the young sleuth
awoke in the morning, her first thought was of the bomb. When had it
been planted? While she was skin diving?

“The person who placed the bomb might have been seen by someone
connected with the inn,” Nancy speculated.

Helen awoke just then, and Nancy asked how she felt. “Fine, except for a
slight headache.” Helen shuddered. “Last night seems like a terrible
dream!”

A few minutes later Emily knocked on the door with clothes for Helen and
Nancy to borrow. While they dressed, she reported that a trooper from
the Benton State Police Barracks would be over shortly to inspect the
burned cottage.

“John checked the lilac grove at daybreak,” she added. “There were lots
of footprints of various sizes, but no sign of any suspicious person.”

“Maybe I _was_ dreaming I saw the ghost,” Helen said. She felt the back
of her head. “But this bump is real!”

The three girls went down to breakfast. John, Mrs. Willoughby, and Maud
were already at the table. No other guests were in the room. Nancy gave
her order to Anna.

At a nearby table the waitress Jean Holmes was arranging flowers in a
copper vase. The girl smiled shyly at Nancy, picked up the bowl, and
walked toward the bay window. As she started to place the flowers on the
wide sill, Jean gave a startled cry. She dropped the bowl, scattering
flowers and water on the floor.

Everyone at the table stared out the window. Two men were peering in.
Nancy recognized them and jumped to her feet in surprise.

The unexpected sight of the two men peering through the dining-room
window had startled Nancy, but in a happy way. She recognized the
observers as her father and the state trooper, Lieutenant Brice.

As Jean apologized for her clumsiness and went to the kitchen for her
broom and mop, Nancy hurried to the hall. She greeted her tall, handsome
father and the officer who had come to her rescue when her car was
forced into the ditch.

“Nancy, are you all right?” was Carson Drew’s first question.

“Oh, just fine, Dad. What a nice surprise to see you!” She kissed him
affectionately. With a smile she added, “I didn’t expect to see you
again so soon, Lieutenant Brice.”

The officer grinned. He explained that he had been assigned to
investigate the cottage fire. When he arrived at Lilac Inn, he had met
Carson Drew, who had just driven up. The two men were completing a quick
tour of the grounds when they passed the dining room and looked in.

Mr. Drew chuckled. “I thought I’d surprise you, Nancy, but I didn’t
expect to scare that waitress.”

“So many upsetting things have happened here, Dad,” Nancy said, “I guess
everyone’s a bit nervous.”

Mr. Drew said that until he had met the officer in the parking lot, he
had heard nothing of the trouble at Lilac Inn.

“The lieutenant mentioned last night’s explosion and fire here. Then he
asked if I were the father of the Nancy Drew who had the accident on the
side road to Benton.”

“You haven’t talked to Hannah?” Nancy asked.

“No. I came directly here.” Mr. Drew put an arm around his daughter.
“I’m concerned about you.”

“I’m all right, Dad,” Nancy insisted. “Really I am. By the way, have you
talked to Chief McGinnis?”

“Yes. That’s another reason I came here,” her father said. “I had to
phone him on a legal matter. He told me that you found the charge plate
and the envelope with your name on it. By the way, there were no helpful
prints on either the plate or the envelope.”

Nancy decided to wait before telling her father of the other mysterious
incidents, and now suggested that the men come into the dining room to
breakfast. She made the necessary introductions. The Willoughbys and Mr.
Drew were well acquainted and exchanged warm greetings.

Maud fluttered her eyelashes. “So _you’re_ the famous criminal lawyer,”
she said coyly.

Carson Drew did not like flattery, but nodded politely. He congratulated
Emily on her forthcoming marriage. When the men had finished eating,
Nancy and her friends went with them to see the burned cottage.

Emily told Lieutenant Brice everything that had happened but excluded
the diamond theft. He rubbed his chin thoughtfully, then said, “All
could be malicious pranks, not connected with the explosion. On the
other hand, they could very well be part of some big scheme.”

When the group reached the site of the burned cottage, they found John
there. Nancy introduced him to her father and the police officer.

After Lieutenant Brice had probed the ruins of the cottage, Nancy and
her friends gave him and Mr. Drew a full account of the previous night’s
events. When he heard of Helen’s experience, Mr. Drew looked grave and
suggested she return home.

Helen shook her head. “I can’t desert Nancy.”

The young sleuth smiled gratefully. Secretly she longed to tell her
father the rest of the story—the trip to Benton, the diamond turning up
in her purse, the faked message from John, and her skin-diving
adventure. But all these, Nancy realized, were related to Emily’s stolen
gems.

Finally Lieutenant Brice announced, “I’ve found fragments of what I am
positive _was_ a time bomb you heard ticking, Miss Drew. I’ll send an
explosives expert over to verify this, however.”

Carson Drew turned to his daughter. “Nancy, I wish I could stay here and
help you work out this mystery. Unfortunately, I have to return to River
Heights and review highly important evidence for a case I’m to try next
week. But keep me posted.”

“I will, Dad. In fact, I may see you if I do some sleuthing near home,
as I plan.”

Before leaving, Mr. Drew asked if Nancy had come upon any leads to her
impersonator.

“Nothing definite, Dad,” was all Nancy could in truth reply.

The attorney then advised Emily to engage a guard to stand night duty.
“I can recommend an excellent man,” he said. “His name is Carl Bard.”

Emily agreed and Mr. Drew went inside the inn to telephone him. He
returned shortly and said Mr. Bard would report there later.

“Fine,” said Lieutenant Brice. “And I’ll have a squad car patrol the inn
frequently. I suggest that no one venture out alone—especially at
night—until this case is broken.”

Good-bys were exchanged, and Nancy stood waving to her father as he
drove off. Meanwhile, Helen and Emily had started for the patio.

As Nancy hurried after them, she came to the tool shed. John had
investigated it, but Nancy wondered if she might find some clue he had
overlooked.

The door was open. She went inside. Spades, hoes, rakes, and other
similar equipment lined the walls. Nancy studied the array. “Just
ordinary garden tools,” she mused. Then suddenly she noticed a pad of
notepaper lying on a bench. Nancy picked it up and turned the pages,
which contained various notations for the gardeners. One item, on the
third page and in a different kind of printing from the other
instructions, read: “Prune blue pipes near grove.”

“‘Blue pipes,’” thought Nancy, as she tore out the sheet. “Now what does
that mean? Could it possibly be a code message? Or a signal? I’ll ask
the gardeners.”

She left the shed, and began to look for the men. The only man in sight
was Gil, who was cutting the lawn with a power mower. She went up, and
attracting his attention, asked him, “Can you tell me what ‘blue pipes’
are?”

“Never heard of ’em,” Gil replied laconically.

“One more question,” Nancy said. “Would you have any idea who used one
of the inn’s canoes yesterday afternoon?”

For a moment Gil’s eyes narrowed. Then he brusquely replied No; he had
not been near the dock all day. “Mr. John asked me the same thing. Well,
I got work to do,” he muttered, and quickly resumed his mowing.

Nancy walked meditatively toward the inn. “If Gil doesn’t know what
‘blue pipes’ are, that message might well be a code phrase.”

It occurred to her that perhaps Mr. Daly would be able to explain the
term. Nancy went inside and found the elderly gentleman in his office,
going over receipts. He looked up as she knocked and entered.

“Good morning, Nancy. Sorry I missed meeting your father.”

Mr. Daly admitted that he had been wearied by his all-night vigil, and
had gone to his room to rest. Nancy smiled understandingly and told him
briefly of Lieutenant Brice’s investigation.

Mr. Daly looked grave. “If all this danger continues, I’m going to
insist that Emily and Dick sell the inn. A nice young couple shouldn’t
start marriage under such circumstances.”

“I agree. But the person responsible for the trouble here must be
caught.”

“You’re right, Nancy,” Mr. Daly said. “I mustn’t lose hope so easily.”

The young sleuth then asked, “Mr. Daly, can you tell me what ‘blue
pipes’ are?”

Mr. Daly chuckled. “Of course—my favorite subject matter is ‘blue
pipes’—or lilacs.”

“You mean that ‘blue pipes’ are lilacs?” Nancy inquired with interest.

“Yes. The ancient name of the lilac was Blue Pipe Tree, a reminder of
the time when pipes were made of its wood. See here.”

Mr. Daly reached into a drawer of his desk and handed Nancy a
half-finished tobacco pipe. “Carving is my hobby. I’m making this pipe
from the wood of a fallen tree limb right here at Lilac Inn.”

“Why, it’s beautiful!” Nancy held up the pipe, admiring the delicate
stem.

At that moment Jean Holmes passed the office. She paused and looked in.
Nancy greeted her, but the waitress barely answered. Her eyes were
riveted on the pipe in Nancy’s hand.

“Isn’t this a handsome piece, Jean?” Nancy said pleasantly. “Mr. Daly
made it.”

“Oh, very.” Jean nodded and hastened on into the dining room.

To Nancy it seemed that the waitress had acted almost frightened. Why?

Mr. Daly seemed not to have noticed. He went on to tell Nancy some
interesting facts about lilacs. The old-fashioned, lavender-colored
blossom and its white companion, so well known in America, originally
came from Bulgaria, Hungary, and Rumania. But the double lilacs of pink,
red, and purple, like those in the grove, were developed by
horticulturists.

“The French developed the Lucie Baltet variety—the same as the stolen
tree,” Mr. Daly said sadly. “Many beautiful lilacs are named after
famous French people, such as Joan of Arc.”

“You’re certainly an expert on every aspect of lilacs,” Nancy
complimented him as Mr. Daly paused.

Modestly, Mr. Daly admitted he had studied the subject intensively. He
himself had planted most of the lilacs at the inn.

“They are considered a flower of mysterious power in the West Indies,”
he said solemnly. “Some people there believe that the perfume keeps away
ghosts and evil spirits. A lilac tree is often planted near the front
door so its branches can act as protection against evil spirits entering
the house.”

Nancy now pulled the sheet with the blue pipe notation from her pocket
and passed it to Mr. Daly. “Do you know anything about this?” she asked.

He glanced at it and said, “No. And I write out all the instructions for
the gardeners. I never use the term ‘blue pipes.’ They wouldn’t know
what it meant.”

“Have you any idea who might have written this?” Nancy asked.

“None whatever. And I can’t figure out what it means. Besides, it’s not
time to prune lilacs. Have you a theory?”

“I’m not sure, except I have a hunch it’s connected with the strange
happenings at Lilac Inn and is a code message. I hope I can figure it
out.”

Nancy pocketed the sheet and left the office. Deep in thought, she
almost bumped into Emily.

“Oh, where’s Detective Drew headed?”

The young sleuth laughed, then showed Emily the sheet. “Do you know who
printed this strange notation?”

Emily stared at the message for several seconds. Finally she said, “No,
but the printing looks familiar.”

“Think hard and don’t keep any secrets,” Nancy urged. “This may be the
turning point in solving the mystery!”

Staring into space, Emily sought desperately for an answer. Suddenly she
snapped her fingers. “I have it! That waitress who left here so
suddenly! She used to print all the orders she took. I mean _Mary
Mason_!”

“Mary Mason again!” exclaimed Nancy. “That settles it! I’m going to
River Heights at once and talk to Mrs. Ernest Stonewell, the woman for
whom she used to work.”

Nancy decided to tell Helen her plan, so the two girls went out to the
patio where she was reading. Nancy revealed her latest findings and told
of her proposed trip. “Want to come?” she asked Helen.

“No, thanks.” Helen chuckled. “You work better alone. What a clue this
is! Maybe you’ll come back with the mystery solved!”

“Don’t count on that.” Nancy smiled. “Where is everybody?”

“John’s at the burned cottage with the explosives expert. Mrs.
Willoughby and Maud are upstairs.”

Nancy leaned toward Emily and said in a low voice, “I hope you won’t
mind my asking, but—but does Maud Potter have anything to do with your
not reporting the diamond theft?”

Emily sighed. “Well, yes. You’ve probably sensed, Nancy, that she seems
to have some influence over Aunt Hazel.”

Helen’s eyes grew wide. “You mean Maud’s sort of—blackmailing her?”

The bride-to-be looked unhappy. “I’m really not sure.”

“And,” Nancy conjectured, “you’re afraid Maud has some knowledge of the
diamonds that may involve your aunt if the theft is publicized?”

“That’s the feeling I have.”

Before the girls could discuss the matter further, Maud herself came
onto the patio. She sank into a chair. “Having a conference?” she asked
sweetly.

“Yes,” Emily replied promptly. “Nancy’s going on a sleuthing trip to
River Heights.”

“Oh?” Maud’s eyelids flickered. “You have what they call a ‘hot clue’?”
she asked Nancy.

“I hope so,” replied the young sleuth calmly.

“Well, give my regards to your dad if you see him,” Maud said airily.

Nancy rose. “I’d better get started. I’ll pick up more clothes for you
and me, Helen.” She laughed. “Then we can return yours, Em.”

Suddenly the group became aware that Jean Holmes, dressed in street
clothes, stood in the doorway. She smiled timidly and said:

“Miss Drew, I heard you say that you’re going to River Heights. I need a
few things I left in the room I shared in town with a girl friend.” She
turned to Emily, and asked permission to accompany Nancy and get them.

“All right,” Emily said. “I trust you’ll return in time to serve
supper?”

“Oh, yes, Miss Willoughby. I’ll take the afternoon bus back.”

Nancy told Emily she herself probably would be back by evening.

“We’ll be on pins and needles until then,” Helen said.

Just before Nancy and Jean reached the convertible, Emily caught up to
them. Drawing Nancy aside, she whispered, “I’ve been thinking—will you
tell your father about my diamonds and the other incidents? Perhaps he
can give you helpful advice. But please ask him to say nothing to the
police, unless there’s no other way out.”

Nancy was delighted. She would feel much better if she could discuss
this aspect of the case with her father.

In a few minutes she and Jean were headed for River Heights. Although
Nancy had lost her handbag with wallet and driver’s license in the fire,
Mr. Drew had obtained special permission for her to drive until her new
license was mailed. Fortunately, he had had a key to her car in his key
case, and had left it with her.

“This is a lovely convertible,” Jean spoke up.

Nancy smiled as the car rode smoothly past farm land and woods. “Where
did you work before coming to Lilac Inn, Jean?” she asked.

“Many different places,” the girl replied. “Florida in the winter,
sometimes, and in the summer, I come north.”

Later, as they neared River Heights, the waitress said abruptly:

“Miss Drew, I had another reason for asking to ride with you. I wanted
to tell you someone at the inn is trying to make trouble for you!”

“What do you mean?” Nancy asked, as they reached the outskirts of River
Heights.

Jean hesitated at first, then said she didn’t want to be accused of
spying. “I think,” she said finally, “Mrs. Potter is up to something
funny!”

“Why?”

Jean revealed that twice she had seen Maud going into Nancy’s
room—yesterday, at the cottage, and then at the inn that morning.

“Really?” Nancy tried to appear nonchalant. “At what times?”

Jean was vague. She said that she had arrived at the inn shortly before
lunch the previous day. “I was unpacking in my room,” Jean went on. “I
looked out the window and saw Mrs. Potter enter your cottage.

“This morning,” she continued, “I was at the second-floor linen closet
when I heard footsteps. I looked down the hall in time to see Mrs.
Potter lock your door.”

Nancy’s mind raced. Was Maud directly implicated in the strange
happenings at the inn? For what purpose had she entered the girls’
rooms? It struck Nancy as odd, however, that Jean would inform on the
woman who had helped her obtain a job. To the waitress she merely said,
“Thank you for telling me.”

“You and Miss Corning were lucky that you weren’t hurt in the cottage
fire,” Jean remarked.

“Yes, very lucky,” Nancy replied. Evidently Emily had said nothing to
the servants about a bomb being the real cause of the blaze.

Nancy asked Jean if she had ever met a girl named Mary Mason from
Dockville. “Mary used to work at the inn.”

Jean wrinkled her brow. “No, although the name is familiar. Perhaps I
once met a Miss Mason at one of the places I’ve worked.”

They were now entering the business section of River Heights. Jean asked
Nancy to let her off in the center of town. “I’m going to the optician’s
first. Then I’ll go to my girl friend’s.”

Nancy stopped near Burk’s Department Store. Jean thanked her profusely
and got out. The young sleuth drove to a nearby tearoom for a quick
snack. Then she continued on to Meadowbrook Lane, in an attractive
residential section, where Mrs. Stonewell lived. Nancy soon spotted the
number and stopped in front of an imposing Tudor-style home.

She hurried up to the front entrance and rang the doorbell. A maid
answered. Nancy gave her name and asked to see Mrs. Stonewell. The
caller was requested to take a seat in the living room.

A few minutes later Mrs. Stonewell, attractively dressed in a tailored
sports suit, stepped into the room. With a gracious smile, she asked,
“Is there something I can do for you, Miss Drew?”

“Yes, Mrs. Stonewell. I’m trying to trace a girl named Mary Mason,”
Nancy explained. “I understand she worked for you.”

The woman’s smile vanished. “Let’s say I hired her. But I didn’t get
much work from Mary Mason. I discharged her after a month.” She glanced
at Nancy curiously. “_You_ don’t want to hire her?”

“Oh, no,” Nancy replied. “She has some information I need. Do you know
Mary’s home address?”

“No. She lived in while working for me,” said Mrs. Stonewell. “I do
remember she occasionally visited a brother in Dockville. Whether or not
she is living there, I can’t say. Nor do I know the street address.”

“One more question,” Nancy said. “Did you ever miss anything while Mary
was working for you?”

“Not that I know of.”

Nancy thanked Mrs. Stonewell and departed. She decided that when she
returned to Lilac Inn later that day she would go by way of Dockville.
Her next stop was at Helen’s house. Nancy reassured Mrs. Corning, who
had read about the fire, of Helen’s well-being.

“Nancy,” Mrs. Corning said, “the newspaper didn’t state how the fire
started. I suppose the usual carelessness—someone tossing away a
lighted match.”

Nancy, inwardly relieved, replied that this was always a possibility.
She did not mention the time bomb.

With additional clothes for Helen in her car, Nancy drove home. She
found that Mr. Drew was out for the afternoon in connection with his
case.

When Hannah heard Nancy’s account of the fire, she exclaimed, “Even on a
pleasure trip, Nancy, danger follows you!” She looked at the girl
knowingly. “And what about this twin of yours? Has she followed you to
Lilac Inn?”

“Hannah, you’re becoming a detective,” Nancy accused fondly.
“Seriously,” she added, “you guessed it. She even managed to fool a
friend of Emily’s fiancé who’s staying out there. But she vanished
again.”

Hannah sighed. “I’ll certainly be glad when she’s caught.”

“I hope to do that soon,” Nancy stated. “After I pack some clothes, I’m
going sleuthing in Dockville.” She explained about tracing Mary Mason.

“That’s a terrible place,” Hannah cried worriedly. “Oh, dear, I’d better
go with you.”

“Don’t worry,” said Nancy. “I’ll be safe in the daylight. When Dad gets
back, please tell him where I’ve gone.”

Nancy quickly packed a suitcase. She also took along her spare set of
skin-diving gear. Then, before leaving, she wrote her father a note
telling the details of the jewelry theft.

When she reached Dockville later, Nancy glanced about in dismay. She was
confronted with row upon row of dingy tenements. In which one did the
suspect’s brother live?

Nancy stopped her convertible and inquired of a stout woman where she
could find a family by the name of Mason. The woman shook her head,
evidently not understanding English.

“I’ll try another block,” Nancy decided, and turned into a winding
narrow street which led along the river front.

She decided to inquire again and pulled up to the curb. She was about to
alight when she glanced in the rear-view mirror. Directly behind her was
a red panel truck. It looked exactly like the stolen vehicle which had
forced her off the road. No one was in it, but the motor was running.
Nancy turned her head to get a better look at the truck.

At the same moment she saw a large rock hurtling through the air toward
her open window!

Bang! The rock struck the door of Nancy’s convertible, just as she
ducked down. When Nancy cautiously raised her head a few seconds later,
she looked all around to see if she could spot the rock thrower. No one
was in sight.

Nancy glanced into the rear-view mirror again. The red truck had
disappeared! Had the truck driver thrown the rock? If it had struck her,
she would have been badly injured. A peculiar coincidence, at the least,
Nancy thought.

Quickly Nancy climbed out and examined her car door. The rock had made a
dent, but there was no further damage. She determined to continue her
search for Mary Mason, and hailed a grocer’s delivery truck which was
coming down the street. When she asked the driver if he had seen the red
truck, the man said No.

“Do you know where I might find someone here by the name of Mason?”
Nancy inquired.

“Yes. Bud Mason. He lives in the next block, on Sixth Street,” the man
replied. “I’ve made deliveries there. It’s number 12.”

Nancy thanked him. She drove along the river, and turned left on Sixth
Street. The houses here were in better condition than the others she had
seen in Dockville. Number twelve was a white cottage with flowers
bordering the front path.

When Nancy rang the bell, the door was opened by a red-haired woman of
about thirty-five. She had clear-cut features and wore heavy make-up.
She wore a snug-fitting lavender dress.

Nancy introduced herself and said she was looking for a Miss Mary Mason
who had worked at Lilac Inn.

“You’ve come to the right address,” the woman replied. “I’m Mary. Come
in.”

“Thank you.” Nancy entered a room furnished with comfortable leather
furniture, books, and several pictures of nautical scenes.

The woman eyed her caller curiously. She invited Nancy to sit down and
asked, “What brings you here?”

Nancy explained that she was a friend of Emily Willoughby and was
visiting at Lilac Inn.

“Miss Willoughby tells me you left because the inn was haunted,” Nancy
went on. “Since then, she’s been wondering what you meant. I said I’d
try to find you and ask.”

Mary had listened attentively. Now she gave a high-pitched giggle. “So
Miss Willoughby’s getting scared. It’s true—Lilac Inn _is_ haunted!”

Mary proceeded to give Nancy a dramatic story of hearing footsteps at
night when no one was around. She said that several times when she had
been working late in the kitchen, a ghostly face had looked in the
window.

“It’s a spooky old place!” Mary shuddered. “I don’t know how I stood
it—the grounds are so lonely and creepy at night. Besides, commuting to
my brother’s here was too long a trip.”

Nancy wondered if she were on the wrong track, after all. Perhaps Mary
had left because of fright, and had wanted merely to find work closer to
town.

The young sleuth looked around. “This is a pleasant home,” she said.
“Have you always lived with your brother?”

Mary answered readily, “No, just since I returned to Dockville, two
months ago. I worked down South during the winter, and before that, out
West. I hadn’t seen Bud for a couple of years. When I came back here, he
suggested I get a job nearby.”

She paused. “Say, Miss Drew, how did you know I was in Dockville?”

Nancy explained about her call on Mrs. Stonewell.

Mary scowled. “That fuss-budget wanted a slave, not a maid. I was glad
when she fired me.”

Mary went on to say that after she left Lilac Inn, she had stayed here.
“I’m keeping house for Bud until I find a really good deal.”

“Oh—by the way,” Nancy said casually, “the other day I found a note to
the gardeners. I understand you printed it.”

For a fraction of a second Nancy was sure she detected a startled look
on Mary’s face. Then the former waitress laughed heartily. “Oh, Miss
Drew, isn’t that funny you should have found that?”

“Then you knew lilacs are called ‘blue pipes’?” Nancy asked. “And what
in the world did the message mean?”

After a short pause, Mary answered, “I don’t know. Someone asked me to
write it.”

“Who?”

“I don’t remember his name. I wasn’t there long, you know.”

Nancy went through the list of names of the gardeners, but Mary still
insisted she did not remember who had asked her to print the message.

“Another thing,” said Nancy. “I phoned this house the other day and was
told no Mary Mason who had worked at Lilac Inn was here.”

Mary Mason flushed. “I don’t know who answered the phone. Around here
nobody calls me Mary. That’s my business name. I’m Dotty Mae. My full
name is Dorothy Mary.”

“I see,” said Nancy. “Sorry.”

Mary stood up. “Hate to rush you, Miss Drew. But I’m er—expecting
company.”

She accompanied Nancy to the door. The young sleuth said good-by and
went to her car. She started the engine, glancing surreptitiously at the
Masons’ cottage. Nancy plainly saw the window curtain move, as if
someone were standing behind it, watching her.

As she drove away, Nancy reviewed the conversation. Mary Mason had
seemed quite friendly, and sometimes a bit flighty. Nancy reflected that
Mary’s explanation of the “blue pipes” note sounded logical, but that
the woman’s whole story had been overly glib. She had, Nancy felt, not
been entirely truthful.

“Why didn’t she want to tell _me_ who asked her to write the note about
‘blue pipes’?” Nancy’s hands gripped the wheel hard as a startling idea
occurred to her. “She’s shielding someone.”

“Blue pipes” _was_ being used as a signal—perhaps between persons at
Lilac Inn and an outside accomplice. Were Mary Mason and a gardener two
of them? And could Maud possibly be a third member of the group? Were
they responsible for the diamond theft?

“They’re all familiar with the place,” Nancy reasoned, “and might have
learned of the secret closet.”

If this were the case, she speculated, the three might have other
assistants. “For instance,” Nancy thought, “the woman who bumped into me
in Benton, whoever put the diamond in my purse, and the person who
placed the bomb in our cottage.”

Nancy felt excitedly that her theory was worth following. She decided to
return home and see if her father were there.

When Nancy arrived she was delighted to find Carson Drew at the desk in
his study. The lawyer went over the whole case with his daughter, then
shook his head in amazement. “This is a many-sided case you’ve tackled,”
he remarked. “I’m inclined to agree that the mysteries at Lilac Inn and
your impersonator are linked together, and that ‘blue pipes’ is a signal
of some kind.”

Mr. Drew leaned forward in his chair. “Of course,” he said, “Emily
should report her entire story to the police. If Maud Potter does hold a
threat over Mrs. Willoughby, she’ll be dealt with by the law.

“Frankly I’m more alarmed about the spear throwing and time bomb than
any other angle to the case, Nancy,” Mr. Drew said somberly. “You and
Helen are in constant danger.”

Nancy said she realized this. “I’ll be on my guard every minute,” she
promised. “And keep my eyes and ears open for any more ‘blue pipe’
messages.”

The young detective went across the room to hug her father. “Dad, it’s
so helpful to talk everything over with you.”

Mr. Drew looked at his daughter keenly. “There’s something else on your
mind. Want to tell me?”

He had observed a troubled expression come over Nancy’s pretty features.
Now she replied, “Yes. Dad, what’s your impression of Sergeant John
McBride?”

“I think he’s a fine, intelligent young man,” Mr. Drew said. “And seems
to be quite taken with you,” he teased.

Nancy’s face remained serious. “I like him, too. But—well, Helen has a
feeling he’s at the inn for some other purpose than just helping Em and
Dick.”

Mr. Drew shook his head. “Nancy, don’t worry. John may have his own
reasons for being at Lilac Inn. But I firmly believe he’s _not_ mixed up
in any jewel theft!”

With a smile Nancy said, “You’re such a good judge of character. I knew
you’d relieve my mind.”

The lawyer then advised his daughter, despite Emily Willoughby’s
concern, to phone Chief McGinnis and tell him the whole story.

“He can use his own judgment on how to proceed. Also, he can dismiss the
police guard at our home.”

Nancy put in the call and gave the chief a detailed report, including
the appearance of the stolen red truck in Dockville.

“I’ll notify the authorities there at once,” he said.

She inquired if there were police records of Dorothy Mary (Dotty Mae)
Mason, Maud Potter, or any of the gardeners at Lilac Inn.

“I’ll check.” When the officer returned to the phone, he said, “No,
Nancy. Nothing.”

She promised to keep in touch and hung up. The girl’s thoughts spun from
subject to subject. Suddenly a daring plan popped into her head. “I’ll
try it!” Nancy decided.

Again she picked up the telephone. This time she dialed Lilac Inn. Emily
answered.

“I think I’m making progress,” Nancy told her friend. “I may not see you
until tomorrow morning. Will you explain to everyone?”

“Of course.” Emily then said happily that Dick had arrived. Her fiancé
had learned from the explosives expert that the cottage fire definitely
had been caused by a time bomb. The police were still working on the
case.

Nancy said good-by, and mentally rehearsed her plan. “I’ve had sleuthing
adventures before,” she thought. “But this will be the first time I’ve
impersonated a ‘ghost’!”

When Nancy confided to her father the idea of impersonating the ghostly
woman in the lilac grove, Mr. Drew looked dubious.

“I think it’s risky, Nancy. And also, how do you know any of the gang is
going to see you?”

“I don’t. I only hope so. But, Dad, if I’m convincing enough, someone
may call me by her name, and I may learn to whom she was signaling,
without raising suspicion.”

Reluctantly Mr. Drew gave his consent. “If anything goes wrong, scream
as loudly as you can.”

“I will. But I intend to do a good acting job,” Nancy assured her
father.

Right after supper she went to the attic and opened a storage trunk.
From it Nancy took out a white evening dress, long-sleeved and flowing.
A further search disclosed a black wig she had once used at a costume
party, and a transparent white scarf.

“Just the props I need,” Nancy thought.

Returning to her room, Nancy tried on the hairpiece. To her satisfaction
it completely hid her own hair. Next, she wired pocket-size flashlights
to the cuff of each sleeve of the gown.

“These provide a glowing effect,” she thought.

Nancy packed the wig and dress in her suitcase. Then she went downstairs
and kissed her father and Hannah good-by.

“I wish you weren’t going back to Lilac Inn,” Hannah fretted.

“Now, Hannah,” said Mr. Drew, “you know Nancy wouldn’t give up any
mystery until it’s solved.”

He then requested his daughter to telephone him the next morning. Nancy
promised and left the house. She reached Benton at eight o’clock. Dusk
was closing in, but it had to be considerably darker before Nancy could
proceed to Lilac Inn.

She took a side road out of town. “Doris lives close to the inn,” she
recalled. “I’ll drop in to see her.” Presently she drove into a dirt
lane leading to the Drakes’ attractive white farmhouse.

She found Doris and her parents playing croquet on the front lawn. They
greeted her cordially.

“About time you came to call,” Doris scolded teasingly. “Nancy, any more
news about your double?”

“Well, yes.” Nancy smiled. “It’s turned into quite a mystery, which I’m
trying to solve.”

“I understand. Detective at work,” Doris guessed wisely.

Nancy then asked the Drakes if they knew a fisherman in the vicinity who
wore his hair in a crew cut. They shook their heads.

“Does anyone own the dock between yours and the one at Lilac Inn?” Nancy
questioned.

Mr. Drake replied that there was no house on the adjoining property. He
understood the dock had been abandoned for years.

By the time Nancy took her leave and drew near the inn, it was dark. She
decided to park in the apple orchard. As the girl detective got out of
her car she felt raindrops. She took a plastic coat with attached hood
from the trunk of her convertible and put it on. Then, carrying her
suitcase, she dashed toward the inn.

When she reached it, Nancy circled the building cautiously, not wishing
to be seen by anyone. The old inn was ablaze with lights. As Nancy
approached the recreation room she heard dance music.

She crept up to the shrubbery and peered in. Helen and John were
dancing, and Emily’s partner was a young man of medium build with
reddish-brown hair and a rather serious expression.

“That must be Dick,” Nancy surmised. She observed that Maud, Mrs.
Willoughby, and Mr. Daly were talking in a far corner of the room.

“I’m glad they are having fun,” Nancy thought, continuing around the
inn. There was no sign near the building of the guard her father had
obtained. No doubt he was down near the river. Nancy walked to the guest
cottages, hoping that one might not be locked. Nancy tried the doors and
finally came to one that opened.

“Brrrr!” she shivered, stepping into the chilly, damp room. Nancy’s eyes
quickly became accustomed to the gloom. The place had no furniture but a
chair. “I’ll have plenty of time to get ready. The ghost won’t be out
until the inn is dark. I may as well rest and go over my act,” she
thought, and sat down on the chair. “I only hope my masquerade will
bring results.”

The time crept by slowly, but finally Nancy saw by the luminous dial of
her watch that it was eleven-thirty. She looked out the window. The rain
had stopped and a few stars twinkled above.

All the lights in the inn were out. She noticed that John’s cottage,
too, was in darkness. “That’s funny. He must have come back, but I
haven’t heard any footsteps since I’ve been here,” Nancy mused. “Wonder
where he is.”

She opened her suitcase and lifted out the dress and wig. She put them
on and took a small flashlight from her handbag.

Cautiously the masquerader made her way to the lilac grove, taking care
not to stumble over roots or twigs. As she drew near it, Nancy thought
she heard the distant put-put of a motorboat. But the sound soon faded
away.

An owl hooted nearby. The darkness beneath the overhanging trees seemed
forbidding. Suddenly Nancy felt panicky, but resolutely she put aside
her fears. She clicked on the small flashlights attached to her sleeves
and walked toward the spot where Helen had been struck. Dramatically,
Nancy waved her arms back and forth.

“I wonder if someone will reply,” she thought.

At the same moment she heard a noise in the underbrush. A small animal
darted across her path, followed by the crunch of footsteps. Quickly
extinguishing her lights, Nancy ducked behind a tall lilac.

The girl’s heart pounded. A figure in glowing white moved slowly toward
her hiding place. At this moment the moon came out from behind a cloud,
illuminating the grove.

Nancy gasped. The other girl was in a long trailing gown. But Nancy felt
as though she were looking into a mirror. The young woman’s face seemed
identical to Nancy’s and she wore her titian-blond hair in exactly the
same fashion Nancy usually did.

“My impersonator!” Nancy cried out involuntarily.

The strange woman stopped abruptly. She scanned the area with her eyes.
Nancy came to a sudden decision: she would meet her “twin” face to face!

[Illustration: “I only hope my masquerade will bring results”]

Without hesitation Nancy clicked on her lights and darted from behind
the bush. She confronted the other figure in white. The young woman gave
a start of complete surprise upon seeing Nancy. Before either could say
a word, heavy footsteps were heard approaching.

The strange girl turned and fled. The next instant Nancy’s arm was
seized by a man. “Let go of me!” she cried.

The man relaxed his grip and Nancy whirled around to face him. He was
tall, husky, and wore slacks and a sports shirt.

“Who are you?” she asked.

“I’m a guard—Carl Bard.”

“I’m Carson Drew’s daughter, Nancy,” she said quickly. “We must catch
the young woman. She’s an impostor and—”

She broke off. Carl Bard was staring at her in obvious disbelief. “I
don’t see anybody else, only you, miss. But Mr. Drew told me his
daughter is blond.”

In dismay, Nancy remembered the black wig she was wearing. “Oh—this is
sort of a masquerade,” she explained, snatching off the wig and hiding
it inside her sleeve. “I’m visiting at Lilac Inn, and I know that my
father suggested you come here.”

“True. But I heard Miss Willoughby say Nancy Drew wouldn’t be returning
tonight.” The guard’s tone was still suspicious. Again he gripped
Nancy’s arm. “You’d better come to the inn with me. We’ll find out who
you are.”

Exasperated, Nancy cried out “You must believe me. There was another
girl here! She escaped just before you saw me. She’s a thief!”

The guard was adamant, and Nancy had no choice but to accompany him.

“My disguise certainly boomeranged,” Nancy thought in disgust as she
snapped off the flashlights in her sleeves.

When they reached the inn the guard rang the bell of the back door,
which was closest. In a few minutes Emily and Maud appeared, both in
robes and slippers.

“Mr. Bard! Is something wrong?” Emily asked, after flicking on the
outside light.

“I found this young woman—” the guard began as he and Nancy stepped
inside.

“Nancy Drew!” Emily exclaimed. “We didn’t expect you until tomorrow!”

“And all dressed up, too. Been to a dance?” Maud asked curiously.

Nancy noticed that the social director wore full make-up. Had she really
been in her room, or could Maud Potter have been the person Nancy’s
double was to meet in the grove? If so, Maud might have seen Nancy and
returned to the inn before she was discovered!

Now Nancy flashed Emily a warning glance and answered, “Had an
interesting date.”

Emily caught on quickly. She turned to Carl Bard. “It’s all right. This
_is_ Nancy Drew.”

The guard nodded. “I’m convinced. But—”

Before he had a chance to say anything more, Nancy said with emphasis,
“I’ll explain everything _later_.”

The man shrugged, said good night, and left.

“Did you have a good time this evening, Nancy?” asked Emily with a
twinkle.

“I always do,” Nancy replied airily, for Maud’s benefit.

Just then a pleasant voice broke in, “Somebody arriving at this late
hour?”

Dick Farnham came forward to join them. Emily smilingly introduced her
fiancé to Nancy.

“I certainly appreciate all you’ve done to help us,” Dick told Nancy.
“It’s a lucky thing you came to Lilac Inn.”

“Now we’d all better get some rest,” Emily said, and everyone agreed.

Nancy was first to reach the stairway. As she stepped up, her foot
caught in the hem of her gown. She stumbled, and the black wig fell from
her sleeve to the floor.

Maud glared at it. “Hm!” she said disdainfully. “Have you been up to
some sleuthing trick?”

The secret of Nancy having masqueraded on the grounds was likely to be
guessed by this busybody!

“Tired of being a blonde, Nancy?” Maud asked sarcastically. “Or are you
the mysterious ghost of Lilac Inn?”

Emily, although at first surprised, sensed that Nancy had used the wig
for a good reason. With a wink at Dick, she said, “Nonsense. I’ll bet
Nancy’s date took her to a masquerade dance.”

The young sleuth was grateful for Emily’s quick thinking. Nancy waited
for another outburst from Maud, but none came. Instead, the unpleasant
woman said in a bored tone, “I think masquerades are so childish. Well,
I’m going to bed.” She said good night and went upstairs.

Nancy now turned to the engaged couple. “Are you both too tired to stay
up a little longer?”

Dick grinned. “Not if I’m going to hear why one of Emily’s pretty
bridesmaids-to-be is masquerading as Cinderella. Tell me, Nancy, is it a
new style to wear flashlights on your dress sleeves?”

“What!” Emily cried, and examined Nancy’s sleeves. “Why, Nancy, what on
earth _have_ you been up to?”

“Can we talk some place where we won’t be overheard?” Nancy requested.
Dick led the way to his office.

Once inside, Nancy told of her sleuthing activities and experiences that
day and night. “I’m glad you helped me along with that ‘dance’ story,
Emily. Only Dad and the guard and you two know where I’ve been.”

Dick spoke up earnestly, “You might be risking your life for us, Nancy.
Lilac Inn isn’t worth that.”

Nancy set her jaw. “I must outwit my impersonator before she outwits me.
And if I do, I’m positive I’ll solve the mysteries of this place, too.”

Dick nodded understandingly. He said Emily had told him of all the odd
happenings at Lilac Inn.

“I also explained to Dick about my fear that Maud has some hold over
Aunt Hazel,” Emily said, adding that she hesitated to ask her aunt
outright unless necessary.

“Of course,” Nancy said. “Mrs. Willoughby is upset as it is.”

Emily said grimly, “If I find out Maud is threatening my aunt, she’ll
regret it!”

The three young people started upstairs once more. On the way, Nancy
asked if Mary Mason and the gardeners had brought references when they
came to Lilac Inn.

“Why, yes,” Emily answered. “But at the time, Dick and I were so busy
with work here, we didn’t check them until later. They seemed all
right.”

The trio said good night, and Nancy entered her room. Helen was sleeping
soundly, and did not awaken. It seemed to the young sleuth that her own
eyes had just closed when she was awakened by Helen calling her name
frantically.

“Nancy! Nancy! Wake up! There’s an earthquake!”

“What?” Nancy sat up in bed. As she did the startled girl noticed that
her bed was indeed shaking slightly.

“Quick!” Helen urged. “Let’s get out of here before the ceilings fall
down!”

As the girls ran to the hall, they met Dick, Emily, Mr. Daly, Mrs.
Willoughby, and Maud. All cried out that they too had felt the
vibrations, which now had ceased.

“This is very strange,” Dick said. “This isn’t earthquake territory.”

On a hunch, Nancy suggested they telephone the Benton State Police and
find out if the tremors were widespread. Dick made the call and with a
puzzled expression reported that apparently the disturbance was confined
to Lilac Inn.

Maud shrieked, “The building’s falling apart! We’d better get out of
here!”

“Go if you want to,” Emily said sharply. “But the shaking has stopped
and the building is still intact.”

“I’ll make an investigation,” Dick offered. “There may be something
wrong with the foundation.” He suggested that Nancy and Mr. Daly
accompany him to the cellar. “The rest of you wait here.”

None of the three discovered anything out of the ordinary in the
basement.

Nancy smiled in relief. “Instead of falling down, this building seems to
be unusually sturdy.”

Mr. Daly, however, was extremely nervous. “This has never happened
before,” he said. “Dick, I strongly advise you to give up the inn.
It’s—it’s just not safe here any more.”

Emily’s fiancé shook his head, saying that he, like Nancy, was more
determined than ever to solve the mysteries at Lilac Inn. The trio went
back to the second floor and reassured the others.

“Are you all sure you never felt a similar vibration before?” Dick
asked. “Shaking like that used to happen to our house when a very heavy
truck went by.”

“Maybe that’s what happened this time,” Helen said philosophically.
“Let’s go back to bed.”

Nancy was not convinced by this explanation. Remembering the explosion
and fire caused by the time bomb, she wondered if someone had planted an
explosive underground to try to destroy or at least weaken Lilac Inn.

“Nancy,” said Helen, when the girls were once more in bed, “why did you
change your mind and come back to the inn tonight?”

When she heard about Nancy’s masquerade in the lilac grove and its
results, she praised her friend. “Next time, though, don’t try such a
risky thing alone,” Helen scolded.

Nancy was almost asleep when a sudden thought struck her. Why had the
“ghost” been titian-haired this time, instead of brunette?

When the girls went into the dining room the next morning, the other
young people, Maud, and Mrs. Willoughby were already eating.

“Welcome back, Nancy,” said John, grinning. “How’s my beautiful
sleuthing skin diver?”

“Ready to flip!” gibed Nancy.

Maud looked up from her grapefruit. “Will you go skin diving with a wig
on?” she asked with an attempt to be facetious.

Nancy was slightly annoyed but gave no sign of this. She hoped Maud had
not spread word around the inn of the wig episode.

Breakfast over, Nancy returned her car to the parking lot and then
sought out Emily privately. She asked whether Maud had been gossiping
about events of the previous evening. Emily said she was sure this was
the case.

“Tell me, Emily,” Nancy said, “how much do you know of Maud’s
background?”

“Very little. Only that Aunt Hazel met her about a year ago at a social
gathering in River Heights. They became friendly. The next thing I heard
was that Maud was going out West. Then, about a month ago, she showed up
here. Aunt Hazel thought she would make a good social director, and Dick
and I engaged her.”

“Maud _can_ be pleasant,” Nancy commented, “and she does have musical
talent. I really can’t figure her out.” To herself, Nancy conjectured on
the possibility of Maud’s using her position as a cover-up.

The young detective left the inn presently to do some sleuthing in the
lilac grove. She met John part way there.

“I didn’t want to mention it at breakfast, Nancy,” he said, “but I’d
like to see the exact site of your masquerade. Emily and Dick told me a
little about it.”

“I’ll be glad to show you.” Nancy led him to the lilac grove. She
described vividly her encounter with her double. John listened intently.

“Nancy, you were in a dangerous spot. Maybe it’s a lucky thing Carl Bard
scared your impersonator away.”

Nancy did not agree. “The sooner she is caught, the better. I must say,
she does look much like me. I don’t wonder you were fooled.”

John laughed. “I think I wouldn’t make the same mistake again. I much
prefer the real Nancy.”

Nancy blushed at his compliment. As the two looked about the lilac
grove, Nancy saw a tiny object glinting in the sun. She picked it up.
The object was of steel and shaped something like a can opener, except
that there was a tiny wheel at the end.

“What’s this?” she asked John.

He took the little device and stared at it. “I know where it belongs,”
he said. “I’ll return it.”

John put the object in his pocket, and Nancy had the feeling he had
deliberately evaded her question.

“I wonder if there are any distinguishing footprints,” he said, changing
the subject.

Nancy frowned as she looked at the soft earth. There _was_ a print—a
peculiar one which she recognized—clearly outlined. It had been made by
a skin diver’s flipper. Nancy’s mind flashed back to the night before,
when she had left for the lilac grove. John’s cottage had been dark.
Maybe he had been sleeping. If not, where had he been?

“John,” she said, looking the young man squarely in the eye, “were you
skin diving last night?”

John McBride looked startled at Nancy’s sudden query. “No, I wasn’t skin
diving,” he said, returning the girl’s direct look. “Why?”

Nancy pointed to the marks on the ground. “They’re flipper prints,” she
said. “There must be more! The jeep tread and these prints have to start
and end some place.”

John knelt down and studied the prints. “From the size, I’d judge these
were made by a man.”

Nancy suddenly recalled the similar prints she had seen and the distant
sound of a motorboat she heard as she had approached the grove the
previous night. She told John of this. “Perhaps,” she said, “whoever
wore the flippers was to meet my impersonator and leave by boat.”

“Or perhaps the diver was aboard but got out of the boat away from shore
and swam underwater to avoid being detected,” John guessed.

Nancy nodded and thought, “If this is the case, it eliminates Maud
Potter as a participant in the rendezvous.”

Nancy’s mind flitted over possible suspects. One of the gardeners? He
could easily have skin-diving equipment without anyone knowing it.

As Nancy and John walked toward the river, following the flipper treads,
she asked, “John, do you know what ‘blue pipes’ are?”

“Sure. Lilacs,” he said matter-of-factly.

Nancy hesitated, then revealed her theory about the term being a code or
a signal. “It could even mean Lilac Inn.”

He raised his eyebrows in amazement. “Wow! Some shrewd deducing!” he
exclaimed.

John stopped suddenly and grasped Nancy’s arm. As the girl stared at him
in surprise, he said excitedly, “Nancy! You’ve given me a terrific idea!
I can’t explain until—well, someday you’ll understand.”

Nancy’s curiosity was piqued. She naturally did not ask John what he
meant. But she was certain that he was tackling some secret problem.
What was it?

By now the couple had reached the river. John pointed out three flipper
prints in soft dirt patches along the bank.

Nancy scanned the area. “I’d like to have a look underwater here,” she
said. “John, would you like to make a skin-diving date?”

John grinned. “You couldn’t keep me ashore.”

The two returned to the inn. Nancy went first to the phone and called
her father. Since she did not want to mention specific details in case
someone was eavesdropping, she merely told him that “last night’s
meeting was most interesting.”

“I understand,” Mr. Drew said.

“Also, Dad, is it all right if I go skin diving? John will accompany
me.”

Mr. Drew gave his permission. “Perhaps you’ll see some unusual fish,” he
added meaningfully.

“Could be, Dad. I’ll let you know.”

After Nancy had said good-by, she and John confided their plan and the
reason for it to Helen, Emily, and Dick.

“All right,” said Emily worriedly, “but watch out for spear throwers.”

Soon Nancy and John, ready for skin diving, were back at the riverbank.
They had decided to search underwater from the area of the flipper
prints to the place Nancy had spotted the sharklike object.

They adjusted their face plates and tanks, and then they descended.
Down—down they went, finally reaching the muddy bottom.

Their eyes darted here and there, observing schools of little fish; but
nothing out of the ordinary came to sight. Nancy and John continued on,
until they reached the place where Nancy had been before. They linked
hands and walked cautiously along the river bottom.

Nancy pointed out the rocky overhang from which she had seen the shark
shape projecting. John nodded.

To Nancy’s disappointment, there was no sign of anything resembling the
mysterious object. What had it been, she puzzled? A sunken boat that
might have since drifted away?

Suddenly John stumbled and dropped Nancy’s hand. Startled, she saw that
his foot was wedged between two rocks obscured by weeds. He bent down
and tugged, but to no avail.

At once Nancy went to his assistance. First, she pulled away the plant
life surrounding the rocks. Then gently she tried to ease John’s foot
loose. It would not budge.

Nancy worked desperately to dislodge one of the rocks. Finally, with
John’s help, she succeeded in moving one of the stones. John’s foot was
free!

Exhausted, the couple rose to the surface and swam toward shore, gulping
in fresh air. As soon as they sat down on the bank, John thanked Nancy
for coming to his rescue. “You’re a wonderful partner to have around,
Nancy—sleuthing or skin diving,” he said.

Nancy smiled. “Thanks, John. Let’s have a look at your foot and see if
it’s injured.”

John sighed. “Yes, Nurse.”

They found that his foot was merely scraped. He and Nancy went
underwater again to do some more sleuthing. But they uncovered nothing
suspicious. Baffled, they swam back to their starting point and walked
toward the inn.

On the way, Nancy saw Gil Gary trimming a hedge nearby. She and John
went over to him.

“Do you happen to know anyone else around here who skin-dives, Gil?”
Nancy asked.

The gardener did not look up, and continued his trimming. “Naw,” he
muttered. “River bottom’s too muddy. It—”

He broke off. Nancy felt a surge of excitement. Why did Gil assume she
was referring to the river? And did he know of its muddy condition from
personal experience? Why had he not finished his answer?

“I suppose,” she said, “some people prefer to travel by canoe.” Nancy
looked directly at the dock where one of the inn’s canoes was tied up.

“S’pose so,” Gil replied shortly.

John now stepped forward. “By the way, Gil, have you or Hank noticed any
more tools missing lately?”

“Naw.” The gardener shook his head.

John shrugged casually. “Just wondered, because Miss Drew and I came
across a funny gadget this morning. Sort of like a can opener. Sound
familiar?”

“No!” the gardener snapped. He flung his shears to the ground. “I’m
goin’ for lunch,” he said, and retreated hastily.

Nancy and John exchanged triumphant glances. “He’s nervous about
something, all right,” John said.

“He certainly doesn’t act like an innocent person,” Nancy reasoned.

There was just time before luncheon for Nancy and John to report in
private to their three young friends.

When Dick heard of the gardener’s reaction to Nancy’s queries, he
frowned. “Maybe I should have a talk with him myself,” he said.

Nancy advised against this action for the present. “If Gil is connected
with the diamond theft, we may learn through him who else is involved,”
she pointed out. “And, perhaps, the identity of my double.”

“You mean, all the culprits might be trapped at once?” Helen asked, and
Nancy nodded.

As Nancy sat down at the table with the others, Jean came over. “Thanks
again for the ride, Miss Drew,” she said in her shy way. “It was real
helpful.”

At this moment Maud Potter entered the room. Jean quickly bent over and
whispered to Nancy, “Don’t forget! Watch out for that troublemaker.”

Nancy did not know what to think. She disliked Maud, but felt it was
unfair to accept Jean’s claim without proof. “Don’t trust an informer
too far,” her father had once said.

The social director took her place. Looking at Emily, she announced,
“Your aunt has a splitting headache and won’t be down.”

“Oh, poor dear.” Emily jumped up. “I’ll go see—”

“I wouldn’t disturb her,” Maud interrupted officiously. “She’ll feel
better after some rest.”

Emily’s eyes blazed. “If I want to see my aunt, Maud, I shall. I’m sick
and tired of your meddling. Dick and I are paying you to be social
director—and—and nothing else!”

There was dead silence at the girl’s outburst. Then Maud gasped. “Well!
That’s all the thanks I get.”

“Thanks for what!” Emily stormed. “Keeping Aunt Hazel under your thumb
and being unpleasant to my guests?”

By now everyone in the dining room—waitresses and patrons—were staring
in Emily’s direction. Dick tried to intervene. “Em, calm down,” he
begged. “We’ll discuss it later.”

But Emily, overwrought, paid no attention. “I don’t care. I’ll give up
Lilac Inn rather than see Aunt Hazel unhappy. I wouldn’t be surprised,
Maud Potter, if you’re responsible for the awful things that have
happened here!”

An almost bewildered look came over Maud’s flushed face. She started to
protest, “I most certainly did not—”

Emily did not allow her to finish. “Furthermore,” the girl went on, “I’m
going to notify the police about all my suspicions regarding the
diamonds immediately.”

At this point Nancy happened to notice that Jean Holmes was taking in
the scene with avid interest. For a fleeting moment the sleuth detected
a hard, calculating look replacing Jean’s usually shy expression. But
the next moment the waitress picked up a tray and went toward the
kitchen.

In the meantime, Maud had also risen. “By all means call the police.
It’s about time they learn the truth,” she said, with a scornful glance
at Nancy. Declaring she had lost her appetite, the woman left the room.

Pale and trembling, Emily sat down. “I’m sorry,” she said weakly. “I
just couldn’t take Maud’s arrogance another minute.”

“I don’t blame you,” Helen spoke up sympathetically, then whispered, “At
least Maud didn’t act as if she were mixed up with the theft of the
diamonds.”

“That’s right,” Dick conceded. “But where do we go from here? Unless
this mystery’s cleared up, we may not be able to open the inn in July.
Also,” he added glumly, “Emily and I might have to postpone our
wedding.”

“Oh, no!” Emily wailed.

Dick said he could foresee no other course of action. His funds were
low, and if he and Emily were to make a success of the resort, the
necessary outdoor work must be completed. A pool and tennis courts, yet
to be built, had been especially featured in his publicity campaign.

“I’ve already mailed out thousands of brochures,” he said.

“Yes, and we’re booked almost solid for summer reservations,” Emily said
unhappily. “Oh, Nancy, what shall we do? I hate to give up hope of
getting my diamonds back.”

Nancy replied firmly, “_I’m_ not giving up. If you agree, Emily and
Dick, there are a few more angles of this case I want to investigate.
And if you don’t mind, I’d like to tell Lieutenant Brice the whole
story.”

The engaged couple readily consented. “Nothing matters now except
finding out the truth,” Emily said.

After lunch Nancy drove to Benton. For privacy, she telephoned the State
Police officer from a booth in the drugstore there. When Nancy had
finished her account, he assured her he would do all he could to turn up
possible new leads to Nancy’s impersonator. Then Nancy called Chief
McGinnis. The typed envelope, he said, had brought no results.

“I’ll confer with Lieutenant Brice about happenings at Lilac Inn. By the
way, no luck yet in finding the stolen truck.”

Nancy’s next call was to her father. Mr. Drew confessed alarm upon
hearing the details of his daughter’s meeting with her double. “No
telling what she and her accomplices may be up to,” he warned. “But
whatever you do, Nancy, don’t overstep anyone’s legal rights.”

“I’ll remember.”

By the time Nancy returned to the inn, it was late afternoon. The sky
had filled with black clouds, and the air was close and oppressive.
“There’s going to be a thunderstorm,” Nancy thought as she entered the
lobby.

No one was in sight. But just then Mr. Daly came from his office. He
said that nothing had been found to account for the quakelike
vibrations.

“I’m afraid, Mr. Daly,” Nancy said, “that the cause is man-made. How, I
don’t know yet.”

The former owner of the inn was shocked. “To think this fine building
must endure such treatment!” He told Nancy that the inn had been built
in 1760 by an English family, and had catered to both stagecoach and
river travelers. The inn had passed from one generation of the original
family to the next. “Some people said that Lilac Inn was a refuge for
slaves who had escaped from the South.”

“Maybe that’s why the secret room was built,” Nancy remarked. “Who owned
the inn previous to you?” she asked.

“A Spaniard named Ron Carioca who’d lived in the West Indies. It was he
who planted the beautiful lilac tree—for good luck—outside the front
entrance.”

Just then Mr. Daly’s phone rang, and he excused himself to answer it.
Nancy walked on into the dining room and looked out the bay window. The
sky was getting darker each minute.

“Oh, hello, Miss Drew.” The voice was Jean Holmes’. She carried a large
vase filled with yellow iris and reddish-purple lilacs, which she set on
the window sill.

“You seem to like flowers, Jean,” Nancy observed. “That’s a pretty
combination: iris and ‘blue pipes.’”

“‘Blue pipes’?” Jean echoed. “What made you use that expression?”

“It’s different,” Nancy said nonchalantly.

Did the waitress seem suddenly ill at ease, or was it Nancy’s
imagination? Before the young sleuth could decide, there was a loud clap
of thunder, followed by the banging of several shutters. As Jean and Mr.
Daly hurried to shut the dining-room windows, Nancy saw John and Dick
dash across the side lawn toward the inn.

Rain came pouring down in silvery sheets. There was another resounding
thunderclap, then a vivid flash of lightning. A splintering, crashing
sound followed.

“Oh!” Jean shrieked. “The inn’s been struck!”

The crash had come from the front of the inn. Everyone raced through the
lobby to peer outside.

“Oh!” Nancy cried. “The historic lilac tree is down.”

The lovely “tree of good fortune” had fallen onto the lawn, splintered
and charred.

“More bad luck!” Emily said mournfully.

Suddenly Maud burst out, “This is the last straw! I’m fed up with a
place full of thieves, weird noises, bombs, a trembling building— I
quit.”

She turned a scathing look on Mrs. Willoughby. “You got me into this.
Thanks for nothing! I’ve found a better job on my own!”

Emily’s face was expressionless as Maud snapped open her purse and
fumbled through its contents. She drew out a letter and flourished it.

“This is an offer of a position I received today from the Hotel Claymore
in River Heights. I’ve already accepted it,” Maud stated. “Emily, I
didn’t go to the employment agency just to find you a waitress, but to
find a _decent_ job for myself. But I asked the manager not to say I had
been there.”

With dignity Emily said, “Maud, Dick will write a check for whatever
salary we owe you.”

With a triumphant air Maud marched upstairs. Emily looked around
anxiously. The waitresses and cooks had gathered in a corner of the
hall. Obviously they had not missed a word of what had been said.

Nancy sensed what her friend was thinking: that the employees were
probably suspicious about the fire. Now that Maud had mentioned the
bomb, all of them might become alarmed enough to give notice. Prospects
for Lilac Inn’s success would indeed be dim.

“I must help Em and Dick before it’s too late,” Nancy told herself
determinedly.

As the rain abated and the sky began to brighten, the men went outside
to examine the fallen lilac. Nancy now turned to Mrs. Willoughby, who
seemed almost in a daze. “Perhaps you’d better sit down and rest,” she
said kindly.

Emily’s aunt gave a great sigh. “I will. Please come with me to Emily’s
office,” she asked the three girls.

When they were seated, Emily said, “Aunt Hazel, _was_ Maud Potter
threatening you in some way?”

“I’m afraid so,” Mrs. Willoughby replied wearily. “Actually I believe
she wouldn’t have carried it out. But I couldn’t be sure—”

To the girls’ dismay, the woman broke down and sobbed. Nancy patted her
shoulder. “Won’t you tell us about it?”

Regaining composure, Mrs. Willoughby nodded. “I feel terrible. When I
brought Maud here, I thought I was helping Emily and Dick. But it’s
turned out just the opposite.

“Anyhow,” she went on, “I met Maud a year ago at a party in River
Heights. We became friendly—attended the theater and so forth. Maud
seemed very pleasant and good company at the time. And I also felt sorry
for her.”

“Sorry?” Helen echoed.

Mrs. Willoughby explained that Maud’s husband had died several years
before, leaving her penniless. Since then, she had worked at various
resorts, but not very long at any one.

“When Maud heard about Lilac Inn, she persuaded me that, with her
experience, she’d be ideal as social director. But soon after her
arrival here, she asked me to lend her a large sum of money—claimed to
have a lot of unpaid bills which her salary wouldn’t cover. Maud became
angry when I refused, but she continued her demands for money.”

Emily interrupted, “Aunt Hazel, why didn’t you tell us she was bothering
you? Dick would have asked her to leave.”

“Maud insinuated that if I tried to force her to leave, she would say
that—that _I_ had stolen your diamonds, Emily, by getting them from the
bank weeks ago, and substituting the fake stones!”

“How dreadful!” Nancy cried out, and Emily added fiercely, “That awful
woman! But, Aunt Hazel, we never would have believed her.”

“I know,” Mrs. Willoughby said ruefully. “But with so many strange
things happening, I guess I wasn’t thinking logically.”

Nancy had one more question to clear up regarding Maud Potter. She
decided to mention Jean Holmes’ warning about the woman.

“Did any of you notice Maud going into our cottage the day of the fire?”
Nancy asked. “Or our room here?”

No one had. Furthermore, Mrs. Willoughby added, “I believe Jean must
have been mistaken. When Maud wasn’t with us, she stayed in her room
typing. She probably was writing letters of application.”

Presently Nancy excused herself, saying she wanted to take a walk and do
some thinking. Once outside, she took a trail toward the river. Drops of
rain still sparkled on the foliage.

Nancy’s thoughts reverted to Jean’s story about Maud. “It sounds as
though the waitress might not have been telling the truth. But why would
she want to incriminate Maud? And why did Jean appear so uneasy when I
mentioned ‘blue pipes’?”

The young sleuth suddenly roused from her concentration on the puzzle
and became aware of an interesting, gnarled apple tree along the
riverbank. Just then she noticed an envelope stuck in a crotch of the
tree.

Nancy picked up the damp envelope, wondering if it had blown there
during the storm or been placed in the crotch, perhaps for someone to
find. There was no stamp or address on the envelope, only a name—Miss
Lillie Merriweather.

Suddenly Nancy’s eye was caught by the fact that in the typed name the
letter _a_ was very faint. This, as well as the rest of the typing,
reminded Nancy suddenly of the envelope found with her charge plate.

“I wonder if they were done on the same machine!” she thought excitedly.

The flap of the envelope had become unsealed from dampness and the girl
slid the letter out easily. A pink lilac spray adorned the top left
corner of the stationery. A message below it, all typed, read:

    _Dear Lillie_:

    _I hope we can get together soon. I’ve been busy lining up an
    important job. Give my best to your dad. Tell him I have a
    beautiful blue pipe for him. Hope to see you soon._

                                       _Hastily, but with love,_
                                                              _Gay_

Nancy’s heart was thumping with excitement. Lilacs—“blue pipes”—two
envelopes bearing the same type—was someone named _Gay_ her
impersonator?

“The name Lillie Merriweather sounds vaguely familiar,” the girl
detective thought.

Hastily she slid the letter back into the envelope and put it in the
tree. She would alert the police to watch for anyone returning to look
for the letter.

As Nancy hurried back to the inn, she recalled Mrs. Willoughby saying
that Maud Potter had been typing. By some chance was the director still
a possible suspect in the mystery? Was she the person who had typed the
envelope containing Nancy’s charge plate?

“I’ll check,” Nancy determined. She went upstairs and knocked on Maud’s
bedroom door. It was flung open by the director.

“Yes?” she snapped.

“May I come in?” Nancy asked.

Grudgingly, Maud allowed Nancy to enter and the detective saw that a
suitcase was nearly packed. On a desk stood Maud’s typewriter, with a
blank piece of paper in the roller.

“Well, Nancy, what do _you_ want?” Maud asked.

Watching the woman closely, Nancy queried, “Have you heard from Gay or
Lillie lately?”

“What?” Maud appeared flabbergasted. “I don’t know any Gay or Lillie.
Now stop quizzing me as if I had done something criminal.”

“I suppose,” Nancy said icily, “that practically blackmailing Mrs.
Willoughby isn’t?”

To her surprise, Maud burst into tears. Between sobs she told Nancy that
she had never intended to carry out her threat. “I don’t know why I did
it. Hazel has been very good to me. I guess I’ve just been upset and
worried about money ever since my husband’s death.”

Nancy could not help feeling a little sorry for the woman. Nevertheless,
she asked, “Do you know anything about the time bomb that was set off in
my cottage?”

“No!” Maud looked shocked. Nancy was sure she was telling the truth.
“I’ve been jealous of you, Nancy,” she admitted, “but I’d never do
anyone physical harm.”

As Maud dried her eyes, Nancy walked toward the desk. Nonchalantly she
typed out her name on the typewriter. _N-a-n-c-y._ All the letters were
clearly defined. The suspicious envelopes had definitely not been typed
on this machine.

She turned to Maud, wished her good luck in her new position, and left.
Then Nancy went downstairs and told Helen, Dick, and the Willoughbys
about the letter and her interview with Maud. “I’m convinced that Maud
won’t cause any more trouble,” she stated. “And now, if you’ll keep
everyone out of earshot of the phone, I’ll call the State Police and
suggest they watch for Gay.”

Nancy had just finished her conversation when Maud Potter came
downstairs. She looked ashamed, and said she would not accept the check
Dick offered her. She asked him to use the money for work on the resort.
A few minutes later the ex-director left in a taxi.

Suddenly everyone was startled by Mr. Daly rushing frantically from his
office.

“Gracious! What’s the matter?” Mrs. Willoughby asked him.

“My blue pipe’s missing! Has anyone seen it?”

“Do you mean the one you were carving from lilac wood?” Nancy asked.

Mr. Daly nodded, saying he had just completed work on the pipe a few
hours ago. He had searched everywhere for it. Although the pipe was of
no great value, he had promised it to a friend. No one present had seen
the hand-carved piece.

“Why would anyone take it?” Helen puzzled.

At that moment Nancy recalled the wording of Gay’s letter. “Tell him I
have a beautiful blue pipe for him.” Could Gay possibly have referred to
Mr. Daly’s pipe, and she, or some accomplice, have stolen it for
Lillie’s Dad? If so, Gay was certainly familiar with Lilac Inn and its
occupants.

At that moment Nancy glanced into the dining room. Jean Holmes was
setting tables for supper. Suddenly Nancy had a vivid recollection of
the shy waitress staring at Mr. Daly’s pipe while he had been showing it
to Nancy. Could Jean have stolen it for Gay? But for what reason?

Saying nothing of her speculations, Nancy asked her friends if the name
Lillie Merriweather meant anything to them.

“There’s an actress named Lillie Merriweather,” Helen spoke up. “She
plays bit roles on Broadway. I think now she has parts mostly in stock
theaters throughout the country.”

“That’s right,” said Mr. Daly. “In fact, I read that she’s with a stock
company in Bridgeton, about seventy-five miles from here.”

“Helen, let’s drive to Bridgeton tomorrow!” Nancy proposed excitedly. “I
have a hunch Lillie Merriweather can tell us something about the mystery
at Lilac Inn!”

Helen eagerly agreed to go with Nancy to call on Lillie Merriweather,
the actress. “It would be fun even if there weren’t a mystery,” she
said.

A little later Lieutenant Brice arrived at the inn with another trooper.
In Dick’s office Nancy told him about Gay’s letter and the spot near
which she had found it.

“We’ll keep watch,” the officer promised. He took the other trooper
aside and whispered instructions. The man nodded and left.

Lieutenant Brice then told Nancy and her friends that no clues had been
discovered to the person who had placed the time bomb.

“There was an unusual silencer on it, however,” he said. “That’s why you
didn’t hear the ticking, Nancy, until a short time before the bomb was
due to explode.”

The officer also said that besides the red panel truck, several other
cars in the area had been stolen. “Some of the vehicles have been
recovered, but there’s still no sign of the red truck. We’ll keep
looking,” the lieutenant promised as he left.

Sunday morning Nancy and Helen were up early for church and their trip
to Bridgeton. After breakfast the girls went to the parking lot. To
their astonishment, Nancy’s convertible was not there!

“Good night!” Nancy exclaimed. Rapidly she searched her handbag for the
key. It was not there. “I must have left the key in the ignition!” she
chided herself.

Helen groaned. “Your car probably was stolen by one of those thieves!”

Just then, John McBride drove into the lot in his jeep. “Hi!” he greeted
the girls. “Why so glum?”

When Nancy told about her missing car, John suggested that he and the
girls go off in his jeep and search the grounds before reporting the
loss.

“Your car may only have been hidden by a prankster,” he suggested. “This
is the day for car trouble,” he added. “I just fixed a flat tire.”

Twenty minutes later the group spotted Nancy’s convertible near a
cornfield across the lane from the orchard. They examined the vehicle,
and found it intact. The key was in the lock.

“Whoever took it had a short trip,” John commented.

Nancy wondered whether the unknown driver had only played a prank. If
so, why? To discourage her from going to Bridgeton? Or had the person
planned to steal the car but been scared off?

The girls stepped into the convertible and told John their destination.
“Lots of luck,” he said.

The drive to Bridgeton took about an hour and a half. Nancy and Helen
arrived in time to attend services in the quaint, white,
eighteenth-century church. Then they had lunch at a tearoom.

“Where do we look for Miss Merriweather?” asked Helen as they paid their
check. “The theater’s closed today.”

Nancy asked the tearoom manager where the summer stock people were
living.

“At the Montrose Hotel, two blocks down.”

Ten minutes later the girls walked into the small hotel. They learned
from the desk clerk that the actress and her father had Suite 303.

As Nancy and Helen rode up in the elevator, they reviewed a plan they
had worked out earlier. To avoid rousing suspicion, Nancy would pretend
to be an actress named Dru Gruen. She would further pretend that she
knew Gay but had lost contact. Helen was to pose as a dancer.

As the young sleuth knocked on the door of Suite 303, she was filled
with anticipation. Would the visit yield the answer to the mystery, or
would it prove to be only a false lead?

The door was opened by a tall, slim young woman, with silver-blond hair.
She wore a becoming dress of jade-green silk.

“Yes?” she asked in a throaty voice.

Nancy smiled. “Miss Merriweather? I’m Dru Gruen, an actress, and this is
my friend Helga Marsh, a dancer. I understand you know Gay. We’re trying
to locate her.”

The actress looked startled. “Gay Moreau?”

“Yes,” Nancy replied without hesitation.

Miss Merriweather invited her callers into an attractive living room. A
fine-looking elderly man arose from a chair as they entered.

“Papa,” said the actress, “these young ladies are theater people—Miss
Gruen and Miss Marsh. They’re looking for Gay.”

Mr. Merriweather, too, appeared startled. “We haven’t seen Gay in quite
some time,” he said. “May I ask why you’re trying to find her?”

“We thought we’d like to have a little reunion,” Nancy explained. “We
haven’t seen Gay recently, and don’t know her present address.”

“We don’t know where she’s living, either,” Lillie put in. “I haven’t
heard from Gay since the last time I saw her.”

“When was that?” Nancy asked.

“Shortly after she was released from prison.”

Nancy and Helen were amazed to hear this. But they managed to conceal
it.

“I imagine,” Nancy said carefully, “that Gay’s been having a hard time.”

Lillie and her father agreed. “Very sad.” Mr. Merriweather sighed. “Gay
had talent. But a five-year sentence for check forgery doesn’t help
one’s career.”

“I can’t understand why she did it,” Nancy said.

“Probably because Gay was poor most of her life,” Lillie reminisced.
“Once success came her way, she spent all her earnings on luxuries. But
Gay couldn’t stop buying expensive things. I guess she figured forgery
was the easiest way to get more money.”

Mr. Merriweather frowned. “What bothered me was that Gay swore revenge
on the person who was instrumental in having her sent to prison.”

“The one whose signature she forged?” Helen asked.

“She didn’t mention the name,” replied Lillie’s father.

“How old is Gay now?” Nancy inquired.

“About twenty-seven,” Lillie answered.

“I wonder,” Nancy pursued, “if she still likes ‘blue pipes’?”

“Oh! Gay must’ve told you that means lilacs!” Lillie exclaimed. “She
certainly was crazy about them—even wore lilac colors.”

“Say!” Mr. Merriweather exclaimed. “I wonder if Gay sent me the pipe
made of lilac wood I received yesterday. There was no return address on
the package, and the postmark was blurred—must’ve gotten wet.”

When he showed the pipe to Nancy, she could scarcely hide her
excitement. The pipe looked exactly like Mr. Daly’s! But she asked
Lillie in an offhand way if Gay had ever spoken of Lilac Inn.

“Why, yes,” the actress replied. “If you mean the old place in Benton
that Gay said she visited as a child, when the inn was owned by a
relative of hers—someone who’d lived in the West Indies.”

“He was a Spaniard, I believe,” Nancy put in, “named Ron Carioca.”

“That sounds right,” Lillie said.

Mr. Merriweather spoke up, “You might find Gay in Benton. Maybe she went
back for old times’ sake.”

“A good idea. We’ll look there,” Helen said.

Nancy sighed. “I suppose she’s changed quite a bit since—her
imprisonment.”

Lillie shook her head. “Surprisingly, no. I’ll show you.” The actress
went to a table and picked up a scrapbook of clippings. She thumbed
through the pages and pointed out a recent magazine picture of an
attractive model with golden hair. “This is Gay. Looks just like her.”

The young sleuth studied the picture. It struck her there was something
familiar about Gay’s eyes.

The two girls thanked the Merriweathers and left. They got into the car
and headed for Benton. Elatedly, Nancy and Helen discussed everything
they had learned—Gay’s last name, the fact that she had been in prison,
and her childhood association with Lilac Inn.

“Do you think she _is_ your double, Nancy?” asked Helen. “There’s a
resemblance. Besides, being an actress, Gay knows how to use make-up
skillfully.”

“Yes. Also, the color of her hair is similar to mine,” Nancy added.

“But,” said Helen, “I can’t understand why Gay decided to impersonate
you in the first place.”

“I’m inclined to think it had nothing to do with the mystery of Lilac
Inn in the beginning,” Nancy replied. “She wanted clothes and jewelry,
so took my charge plate. But later she decided to use the disguise to
keep John and me from our skin-diving trip.”

“You mean Gay was at the inn?”

“Yes. Under an assumed name, of course.”

Helen grinned at the young sleuth. “And next you’re going to tell me who
she was. Well, one person she _couldn’t_ have been was Mary Mason. You
saw her in Dockville, and said she’s heavier and older than you.”

Nancy pursed her lips. “I never checked the description of _that_ Mary
Mason with Emily. She may _not_ have been the Mary who worked at the
inn, but was in league with her, and was asked to pose as Mary Mason,
waitress.”

Helen was amazed. “Nancy, you’re a whiz. Gay and Mary probably are the
same person.”

“That’s what I suspect, Helen. First, we’ll check with Emily.”

When the girls reached the inn, they questioned Emily. “Now that I think
of it, Nancy,” Emily said, “Mary Mason _was_ about your height and
weight, and her coloring’s like yours.”

“That settles it,” said the young sleuth. “I’m going to talk to Chief
McGinnis immediately.” With her friends covering the extension phones,
Nancy told him of her suspicions.

“You’ve certainly made great progress, Nancy,” he praised her. “I’ll ask
the Dockville police to get a line on the Mary Mason you talked to
there.”

“Thank you,” said Nancy, then she called her father. Hannah said that
Mr. Drew had gone out to dinner with a client, so Nancy asked the
housekeeper to give him a message.

“Of course. Have you solved the mystery?” Hannah inquired hopefully.

Nancy said not yet, but to tell her father that she had an important
clue to her impersonator. “Ask him to call me at the inn, please.”

Hannah promised to do so, and said that she hoped to hear the whole
story soon. At suppertime John was not present at the table. Helen asked
nonchalantly where he was.

“John said he had an errand to do,” Dick replied.

When the meal was over, Nancy encountered Jean Holmes in the center
hall. “If anyone should phone me, will you please call me,” she
requested. “I’m going outside for a walk.”

“I’ll be glad to, Miss Drew,” said the waitress.

Actually Nancy wanted to find Carl Bard and ask the guard if he had seen
anything suspicious or obtained any clue to her double. She met him
coming toward the inn to supper.

“No, I haven’t,” he replied to her questions. “It’s been very quiet
here.”

Nancy thanked him and walked off. She strolled through the grounds,
thinking over the day’s events. Who had used her car? Had John any idea
as to the driver’s identity? Was it the person responsible for the
flipper tracks John had examined several days ago in the orchard?

Nancy continued toward the water reflectively, but did look back,
wondering if by chance anyone might be following her. Suddenly she saw
Jean Holmes emerge from the kitchen door of the inn. No one else was in
sight.

“She’s probably looking for me,” Nancy thought. “Chief McGinnis or Dad
must have phoned.”

Nancy expected Jean to call out her name, but she did not do so. The
young sleuth was about to hail the girl when she noticed that Jean was
carrying a small suitcase. She glanced furtively from left to right,
then headed for the river. Some instinct caused Nancy to duck behind a
large oak. Jean reached the water and turned right. Nancy stealthily
followed the waitress.

The other girl walked on quickly until she reached the lilac grove. Then
she slipped through an opening in the bushes.

Curious, Nancy decided to keep shadowing the waitress. The trail led
Nancy upstream along the river for about half a mile. Presently Jean
approached a dilapidated building. She entered the partially open,
sagging front door.

As Nancy crept forward, she looked about her constantly. Suddenly she
stifled a scream. A grotesque shape was emerging from the river!

The apparition had stubby back fins and a bulging glassed-in prow. It
was about fifteen feet long and painted a somber blue.

Then recognition struck Nancy full force. “That’s the ‘shark’ I saw
underwater—a miniature submarine!”

Fascinated, she watched the craft glide into a cove adjacent to the
shed. A moment later a man’s hand lifted back the glassed-in section and
a figure in skin-diving gear stepped to the ground.

Before Nancy could decide what to do, she was grabbed from behind and a
rough hand was clapped over her mouth!

Nancy struggled but could not free herself or see her captor as she was
pushed toward the shack. A cloth had been tied over her mouth. Once
inside the dilapidated building, she blinked in astonished disbelief.

_Jean Holmes stood peering into what looked like a cellar! Gil Gary, the
gardener, was holding open a trap door to the opening!_

Jean and Gil stared at Nancy and her captor. “Well, Nancy Drew, the
detective!” Jean’s voice was no longer shy, but strident. “Where did you
find _her_, Frank?”

“Spying, was she?” Gil added.

“She sure was,” said the man called Frank. The young detective observed
that he was about fifty years old, and of medium build. His hair was
cropped close. Suddenly Nancy realized that he must be the boatman with
a crew cut whom Helen had seen and also the fisherman on the river she
herself had questioned. She recognized his nasal voice.

[Illustration: “Nancy Drew won’t get a chance to reveal our scheme!”]

But Jean! Nancy was astounded. What was this trio up to? Obviously
something underhanded. Was Gay, alias Mary Mason, in league with them?
And how did the miniature submarine fit into their scheme?

Frank maintained a tight grip on Nancy’s arm. “Guess you won’t go skin
diving for a while.” He gave a harsh laugh.

“You bet,” Jean spoke up, her eyes gleaming coldly. Nancy noticed the
girl no longer wore glasses. “We’ll see to that. Nancy Drew won’t ever
get a chance to reveal our scheme!”

Gil nodded. “We’ve got to clear out pronto and take her with us. The
shipment’s aboard the boat. Everything’s cleaned out of here.”

The three accomplices held a whispered consultation. Before Nancy had
time for further analysis, Gil looked at his watch.

“We’ve got to step on it. Simon will be worried.”

“See you there,” Jean said to Nancy slyly. “Try to figure this one out,
Miss Private Eye!”

At these words, Frank gave Nancy a shove and dragged her to the river.
The man in skin-diving gear was waiting. Nancy struggled to get away,
but to no avail.

To her horror, the skin diver forced her into the back seat of the
miniature submarine and tied her securely. She had a glimpse of Frank,
Gil, and Jean boarding a motorboat hidden in a nearby cove. Then the
skin diver shut the transparent hatch and the sub began to descend.

“How am I ever going to escape?” A wave of terror swept over the young
sleuth. As the submarine plunged downward, Nancy told herself sternly,
“I must keep cool!”

She noticed that the skin diver remained in front with another man, who
was piloting the craft. “They’re two more members of the gang,” Nancy
thought. “I wonder who Simon is? And what kind of shipment is on the
boat Gil mentioned? Are we heading there now?”

The navigator was steering forward, using a simple control stick and
automatic pedals. He and the frogman kept their backs turned to Nancy.
Were these men enemy agents, or smugglers? Perhaps Emily’s diamonds were
part of the mysterious shipment!

Nancy thought about the rocky overhang under which the shark-nosed sub
had been hidden. “I suppose Frank was the lookout,” she conjectured.
“And Gil probably went to meet him in a canoe from the inn.”

She concluded that the skin diver had probably thrown the spear at her.
“Either to get rid of me for good, or scare me away. And it was probably
this sub that caused Helen and me to capsize in the canoe.”

It occurred to Nancy that even if she learned the answers to all her
questions, it might do her no good. Escape seemed impossible. She
realized that none of her friends, her father, or the police would have
the slightest idea where she was.

Then a faint hope came to her. Carl Bard had seen her leave the inn! “If
only they think to search the river,” Nancy thought worriedly.

Trying to forget her fears, the young sleuth concentrated on the two
scheming waitresses: Mary, doubtless a disguise of Gay Moreau, and Jean
Holmes who—

“It’s fantastic—but—if Gay can impersonate me, and pose as Mary, why
couldn’t she be Jean Holmes?”

Nancy was sure the actress could easily play any role—plus being Gay
herself! Gay, beautiful but avaricious; easygoing, flighty Mary, and
shy, plain Jean.

Gay, familiar with the inn, had disguised herself as Mary. She could
have been the “ghost,” sometimes as a titian blonde, at others wearing a
dark wig. As part of the scare operation, she had left, using the excuse
of the place being haunted. Then she had come back in another
disguise—as Jean Holmes.

Gay, as Mary, could easily have overheard Mrs. Willoughby describing
Emily’s twenty diamonds, and also telling Maud the planned date of
presentation. Then Mary bought the substitutes. She had slipped into the
hidden closet without being seen and committed the theft.

The speculation brought Nancy back to the present. Had Frank and the men
on the sub helped with the diamond robbery? Was the cellar in the river
shack being used to hide stolen goods to be taken away later in the sub?
Would the answer to these questions explain the other mysterious events,
including the time bomb and the vibrations at the inn, all done to scare
people away from the place?

It seemed to the young sleuth that ages had gone by since her capture.
But now the sub slowly ascended to the surface. Nancy heard the
navigator say that something was wrong with the mechanism. As he steered
toward a small cabin cruiser a few hundred feet away, Nancy saw that
they were on an isolated section of the Muskoka River.

The sub stopped alongside the cruiser and the pilot opened the hatch. He
untied Nancy from the seat and helped her mount a small ladder to the
deck of the cruiser.

Awaiting them were Jean Holmes, Gil Gary, and Frank! Jean laughed
triumphantly. “Well, have a nice trip?” she taunted Nancy.

Unable to speak, and guarded closely by Gil and Frank, holding
flashlights, Nancy gave her a disgusted look. She scanned the river for
other nearby craft. There were none. If only a River Police Patrol boat
would come by! But none did.

Meanwhile, the skin diver and pilot had hitched the miniature submarine
to the stern of the cruiser. As the diver took off his face mask, Nancy
saw that he was dark, wiry, and had an impassive expression. Jean
gestured toward the pilot, a stocky man of about thirty.

“This is my brother-in-law Bud,” she smirked, as Gil tied Nancy’s arms
behind her back, then bound her legs together with a stout rope. “I
couldn’t introduce you when you visited my sister in Dockville. She did
a good job of being Mary Mason, eh, Nancy?”

Nancy’s theory about two Mary Masons was correct! Also, it was now
apparent that Gay Moreau had assumed her brother-in-law’s last name for
her first Lilac Inn disguise.

The next moment Nancy was thrust violently forward through the door of a
small cabin. She fell to the floor, and the door was slammed behind her.
Simultaneously, the cruiser’s engine churned and the boat began moving.
Despair engulfed Nancy.

Meanwhile, back in River Heights, Chief McGinnis had just received a
phone call from the Dockville chief. He reported that the house Nancy
had visited was empty. Neighbors had said that the three occupants, a
husband and wife and a woman relative had rented the house. They had
been quiet, and kept to themselves.

One woman neighbor had mentioned, however, that occasionally she heard
hammering and drilling noises coming from the basement of the house. The
police sergeant had checked and discovered some electronic equipment in
the cellar, along with several books on navigation and skin diving.

“But we found a real prize in the garage,” the sergeant added. “The
stolen truck that almost ran into Miss Drew! We’re keeping a stake-out
on the house.”

Chief McGinnis had just hung up when a call came in from Carson Drew.
“Chief,” the lawyer said tersely, “have you heard from Nancy?”

“Not since this afternoon. Why?”

The lawyer explained that he had just returned home, and telephoned the
inn. He had learned from Miss Willoughby that Nancy had been missing for
several hours. “Everyone, including the State Police, are out looking
for her. Nancy’s convertible is still in the parking lot. Her canoe and
diving equipment are still there.

“I don’t like this at all,” Carson Drew went on gravely. “I understand
my daughter called you after talking with some actress who gave her a
clue to the person who’s been posing as Nancy.”

“Yes, Nancy thinks her impersonator is an actress with a prison record.
Her name is Gay Moreau.”

“Gay Moreau!” Carson Drew exclaimed. “Chief, if that girl’s responsible
for Nancy’s disappearance, my daughter is in great danger!”

Even as Carson Drew made the pronouncement that Nancy’s life was in
danger, his daughter was thinking the same thing. She was lying on the
cabin floor where she had been thrown, and was trying to loosen the
ropes which bound her.

Nancy glanced around the tiny cabin. It had two bunks, a table, and a
chair. “Even if I could work myself free, there’s no escape route,” she
thought.

The imprisoned girl looked toward the one tiny porthole. At this moment
the cruiser began to roll heavily. The river must be getting rough.

Just then the cabin door was opened and Nancy felt a strong gust of
wind. Jean Holmes entered the room and slammed the door shut. She gave
Nancy a gloating look.

“Comfortable? Oh, I forgot. Our clever sleuth can’t talk.” The
ex-waitress walked over and tore the cloth from Nancy’s mouth. The
girl’s lips felt parched and dry.

Jean laughed mockingly. “I suppose you’d like a drink of water. Well,
Carson Drew’s daughter can stay thirsty. Thanks to him,” she said
bitterly, “I gave up most of the luxuries of life for quite a while!”

“Dad!” Nancy cried out. “What did he have to do with—” She broke off,
suddenly recalling the waitress’s startled reaction when Nancy’s father
had peered into the inn dining room. Nancy also remembered the
Merriweathers’ story.

“I think I understand,” Nancy said. “It was my father who proved you
were guilty of check forgery, Gay Moreau!”

The other girl seemed thunderstruck. But she quickly recovered her
poise. “So you found out who I am. Well, it won’t do you any good.”

Gay’s tone was sinister. Nancy remained outwardly calm; at least, she
could stall for time.

“You’re the girl who impersonated me in Burk’s Department Store,” the
young detective accused. “Also, you played the parts of Jean Holmes and
Mary Mason at Lilac Inn.”

“You can call me Gay now,” the girl sneered. “I had you fooled, though,
didn’t I? But then, I was a good actress before I went to jail. Your
father represented one of the persons whose checks I forged. I told him
the day I was convicted I’d get revenge.”

Nancy nodded. “And you got your chance to do it by posing as Carson
Drew’s daughter,” she said. “First you broke into our home and stole my
charge plate, and the silver-framed picture to copy my appearance. You
took a flowered dress of mine, too.”

“That’s right.” Gay tossed her head defiantly. “The mink stole, evening
gowns, and watch will fit into my new social life.”

“And I suppose Emily’s diamonds will, too?” Nancy prodded.

Gay smiled triumphantly. “Yes, I have the real jewels, and Emily
Willoughby has the fake ones. A tidy haul. They’re here in this cabin.
We’ll sell them for a fancy price where we’ve disposed of a few other
things.”

Gay began boasting of how the jewel theft had been accomplished. She
said that after leaving jail she had not been able to find theatrical
parts. Finally, she had forged references, and worked as Mary Mason for
Mrs. Stonewell.

“After that,” Gay went on, “my brother-in-law Bud, Gil Gary, Frank, and
their pals came up with a sharp idea of buying the sub to use on the
Angus River so no one could spot the place we were using as a hide-out.
And that was why Gil and I went to work at Lilac Inn. Never mind that
part now. Anyhow, while I was there I overheard Mrs. Willoughby tell
that woman Maud when she was going to present the diamonds. I decided to
steal them at the party. Gil turned off the lights at the right moment.”

When Gil had phoned her that Nancy was at Lilac Inn, Gay said she had
schemed her next move.

“To throw people off the track, I disguised myself as Jean Holmes and
went to the Empire Employment Agency to ask for waitress work at Lilac
Inn. What a break when I met Maud Potter there and got the job without
registering at the agency.”

“So that’s why you came to the inn earlier for an interview,” Nancy
interjected. “Later you sneaked back, and hid in the secret closet.”

“Yes. What made you guess _I_ was the thief?”

Nancy explained about the lilac petals and other clues, including the
note she had found which led her to Lillie Merriweather.

“Lillie!” Gay said scornfully. “Did she tell you that she was one of the
people whose checks I forged?”

“No!” Nancy replied in amazement.

Gay sneered. “Lillie changed her mind and didn’t prosecute—always felt
sorry for me and her dad did too. I liked him. In fact, I stole Mr.
Daly’s blue pipe and mailed it to Mr. Merriweather. But Lillie’s had all
the stage breaks! I hated her, but never let on!”

Nancy stared at Gay unbelievingly. The former actress certainly had a
twisted outlook on life!

Now Gay said she had put the note to Lillie in an old apple tree for
Frank to pick up and deliver. “But he didn’t come—that John McBride was
always snooping around. He even found our shack, but not what was in it.
I finally managed to sneak the note away when the policeman turned his
back.”

“You decided,” said Nancy, “to throw suspicion away from yourself by
implicating Maud Potter.”

“Sure,” Gay admitted. “Maud Potter was a natural for your suspicions. So
I figured you might believe she was the one who put the diamond in your
purse. _I_ did that, and got a friend of mine to bump into you at a good
moment.

“Also, I was the mysterious girl Helen saw in the grove. Gil was the one
who knocked Miss Corning out. He got panicky when he saw her, and
thought she might not be fooled by the ‘haunt’ idea.”

“And of course,” Nancy said dryly, “you and I met face to face in the
grove.”

“_You_ were the ghostly figure who jumped out at me?” Gay said,
surprised. Then she laughed. “Pretty good impersonator yourself.” She
explained that on the night Nancy had encountered her, she had been in a
hurry and forgotten to wear the dark wig.

Nancy’s bonds were biting into her skin painfully. But she gave no sign
of this as she asked Gay, “Did you print on a paper a message about
pruning ‘blue pipes’?”

“Yes. Bud told me to put it there for Gil. It meant the sub would arrive
that night.” Gay said that “blue pipes” had been used as a signal in
other ways. The flowers she, as Jean, had placed in the dining-room
window meant “Watch out for sleuths.” Gay admitted also that the gang
had tapped the inn’s telephone wires after “Mary Mason” had left.

At that moment the cabin door opened. A man Nancy had not yet seen stood
there. He was tall and dark, with thin features.

Gay introduced him as Simon, her fiancé. “You talk too much, Gay,” he
growled.

Ignoring Nancy, he added, “It’s very foggy and the water’s getting
rougher. Frank and Gil are watching for patrol boats. Bud’s steering.”

Simon left. Gay then opened a large make-up kit. She took out two wigs.
“Watch this,” she told Nancy proudly.

The actress pulled off the brown wig she was wearing and put on a
reddish-blond hairpiece. Then she applied long eyelashes and heavy rouge
and lipstick.

“Meet Mary!” she said.

Nancy did not comment. Instead, she asked, “Did one of your pals throw a
rock at my car?”

“Yes, as a warning, but you ignored it,” Gay replied. “I knew through
Gil you were suspicious. We were ready in case you hit Dockville.”

Gay removed her Mary Mason make-up. “And now, meet your double, Nancy
Drew!” she said dramatically.

The captive sleuth watched as Gay deftly arranged her hair like Nancy’s.
Then, with eyebrow pencil and other cosmetics, transformed her face.
Nancy had to admit the resemblance was striking.

“Incidentally,” said Gay, “thanks for the loan of your pink dress. Wish
I could have kept the date with that handsome John McBride.”

“Tell me, who was responsible for the message phoned to Anna?” Nancy
asked.

“Bud. He’s a good mimic,” Gay bragged. “And our skin diver threw the
spear at you when Frank signaled.”

“Whose idea was it to place the time bomb?”

“Mine,” Gay replied. “But Gil put it in the cottage.”

Gay now admitted that Bud’s midget submarine was the object which had
capsized the girls’ canoe. He and Simon had been in the craft and were
practicing a partial ascent as the girls passed over it.

“That was really just an accident,” Gay added.

Nancy’s mind dwelled on the submarine. Was it also part of Bud’s “sharp
idea”? She could get no answer from Gay about this.

The actress did admit that the gang was responsible for breaking in and
turning on the phonograph record, stealing the lilac tree, and digging
the hole into which Hank had fallen. They had also caused the inn to
quake by using a strong vibrating machine against the cellar wall, then
running off with it before being detected.

All these things had been done, Gay said, to make Emily and Dick close
the inn and keep Nancy and the others from detecting the gang’s project
until they were finished in this locale and could make a getaway to
another spot. “We knew you were finding out too much,” Gay told Nancy.
“So we had to act fast. The trouble was, nothing made you get out!”

On a sudden hunch, Nancy queried, “Does this other project of yours have
to do with the missing tools?”

Gay hesitated. “That’s something you’ll have to figure out.”

Just then, the boat dipped sharply. Gay clutched her stomach. “Oh, I
feel terrible!” she cried, her face a grayish green. “I think I’m
seasick!”

The impersonator slumped into a bunk. Nancy’s eyes darted around the
cabin, trying to guess where the diamonds might be. Certainly not in any
of the obvious places. Her glance lingered on a wall barometer. This
would be an ideal spot if its back were hollow!

Then the cabin door opened and Gil entered. “What’s the matter with you,
Gay?” he said roughly. “C’mon. We’re headin’ for shore till this blows
over and the fog lifts.”

“Oh, leave me alone!” Gay said irritably. “I’m ill.”

The next moment there was a crash and the sound of splintering wood.
Nancy was hurled headlong across the cabin, and Gil and Gay were flung
to the floor. They heard cries from outside and someone shouting,
“About, Bud! _About!_”

Gil was the first to recover from the crash. He dashed out of the cabin.
In a minute he was back with Simon.

“We struck a log!” Simon gasped. “We’re sinking! And there’s a fire in
the engine!”

“Besides, some boat’s approaching!” Gil added. “Might be a patrol. Frank
and the others have jumped over. We’re scramming too, in the sub.”

“Get up, Gay!” Simon ordered.

But the former actress, chalk-white, seemed unable to move. Simon rushed
over and yanked the actress to her feet.

“The diamonds!” Gay screeched. “We can’t forget them!”

“We can’t be caught with loot,” Simon argued. “We’ll skin-dive for the
diamonds later.” He glanced toward Nancy. “I’d better cut her loose.”

The man groped in his pocket for a knife, but Gay stopped him. “Don’t be
a fool!” she hissed. “If she drowns, we can’t be blamed. Good-by, Nancy
Drew!”

The trio raced from the cabin. Nancy, bound and helpless, was left alone
in the sinking ship.

Until now, Nancy had not fully believed that her captors would let her
perish. But she was left, bound hand and foot, aboard a sinking vessel!

Suddenly Nancy sniffed the acrid smell of smoke—the fire was spreading!
She screamed for help until her throat was hoarse. Then, about to faint,
Nancy heard an answering shout, and the sound of a boat pulling up
outside the porthole.

“Oh, thank goodness,” she breathed fervently.

Shortly, two men in River Police Patrol uniforms hurried into the cabin.
They quickly untied Nancy and carried her on deck. She saw that the fog
had thinned and that the cruiser’s stern was aflame. Desperately she
tried to tell the men of the escaped gang, and what had happened.

“No time to talk now!” one of them urged.

The patrol boat stood near the bow of the cruiser, which was almost
submerged. Nancy and the men quickly transferred to the other boat.

As the patrol craft pulled away, giant searchlights played over the
surrounding waters. Captain Morgan, head of the patrol, came up beside
Nancy in time to see the burning cruiser go under. Emily Willoughby’s
precious diamonds would soon be on the river bottom.

Nancy identified herself, and quickly explained about being taken
prisoner and left in the sinking ship to drown. “You must capture the
five men and Gay Moreau! Some of them are probably swimming to shore.
The others went in the sub.”

To her astonishment, the captain asked Nancy to look through a nearby
porthole into a cabin where three men sat. “Recognize them?” he asked.

“Yes!” Nancy gasped. “Bud Mason, Frank, and the skin diver!”

Captain Morgan nodded. “We fished them out of the water just before
rescuing you. They said they had jumped overboard after colliding with a
fallen log—but nothing about any prisoner on the cruiser.”

“Naturally!” said Nancy. “Hurry! You might still spot the sub if it
hasn’t submerged.”

Captain Morgan looked dubious. Nevertheless, he barked an order. A
high-beam searchlight was played over the water.

A moment later Nancy cried out, “Look!”

A shark-shaped object could be seen floating above water in the
distance. Captain Morgan picked up binoculars.

“You’re right, Miss Drew. It is a small sub!” he exclaimed. “Full speed
ahead!”

Nancy waited tensely as the patrol craft pulled alongside the submarine.
Gay, Gil, and Simon were inside it, with the hatch open.

Captain Morgan and his men gave the actress a startled look, then
glanced at Nancy. The girl’s heart sank. No wonder the men were
confused! Gay still wore her Nancy Drew disguise!

“Gay Moreau has been impersonating me,” explained Nancy, as the trio
were helped aboard and towlines attached to the submarine. “She and the
others are diamond thieves.”

“This girl has been impersonating _me_ for some time!” Gay snapped.
“_My_ name is Nancy Drew!”

The young sleuth started to protest, when Gay withdrew a wallet from the
pocket of her dress. Nancy was dumfounded when Gay took out a driver’s
license and handed it to the captain.

“This license was issued to Miss Nancy Drew of River Heights,” the
captain said, frowning.

Nancy realized that Gil must have stolen the license when he planted the
bomb in the cottage! Gay smiled triumphantly. “_This_ girl is the thief!
She was tied up because she sneaked aboard our boat and tried to steal
jewelry from my luggage.”

Nancy realized that the actress in desperation had cleverly reversed the
situation to keep from being arrested. No one aboard could, or would,
identify the real Nancy Drew. If the gang’s stories were believed the
six might be released. Nancy could be taken into custody.

“By the time my identification can be established, the others will have
recovered the diamonds and escaped,” she thought desperately.

Just then, a foghorn sounded and the group on board saw a searchlight
sweeping across the water. Moments later, a second patrol launch came
into view and pulled alongside.

Gay Moreau had pushed forward to stand in front of the young sleuth. At
the same time, Nancy and she recognized Carson Drew standing at the
railing beside John McBride and Lieutenant Brice. Also present was Chief
McGinnis.

“Nancy!” Mr. Drew called. “Oh, Nancy, my dear, you’re safe!”

Gay smiled and waved back. Then she edged furtively toward the stern, as
if intending to jump overboard.

Nancy, meanwhile, had been expecting such a move. Unnoticed by Gay she
had backed up several feet. The next moment, as the actress hurled
herself toward the rail, Nancy tripped her. Gay went sprawling on the
deck.

“That’s one score evened,” Nancy said firmly.

But Gay was still undaunted as Carson Drew walked across a plank and was
about to step onto the deck of the other craft. She leaped to her feet.
Shoving Nancy aside, she dashed toward Mr. Drew.

“Dad—I’m so glad to see you!” she cried, and was about to fling herself
into his arms when Nancy intervened.

“No, Dad, it’s a disguise!” she exclaimed, and grasped Gay by the arm.
With her free hand, she rubbed off some of the actress’s heavy make-up.

As Gay stood glaring balefully, her true looks were disclosed. Carson
Drew said severely, “Well, Gay Moreau, justice is catching up with you
again.” Then he kissed his daughter.

All this time Simon had been pinned against the railing by several of
the police. Now he made a desperate effort to jump overboard, but was
instantly stopped. “Well, I guess we’ve had it, Gay,” he said grimly.

Gay’s features were contorted with rage. “Next time we’ll set a better
bomb for you, Nancy Drew!” she screamed.

“There’ll be no next time!” Chief McGinnis spoke sternly, as the river
police officers put handcuffs on Gay, Gil, and Simon.

Brief explanations were made to Captain Morgan, who led the chief and
Lieutenant Brice to the cabin where the other three captives were being
guarded. The officials spent some time interrogating them while Nancy
talked to her father and John McBride, bringing them up to date on the
recent happenings.

“Gay almost had me fooled, until we came on board,” Carson Drew
admitted.

Later, in the captain’s quarters, the officials met with Carson Drew,
Nancy, and John.

“Nancy, you deserve an explanation from me,” said John. “I told you once
that my Army work was confidential. Actually I’ve been working on a case
while visiting at Lilac Inn.”

John stated that he was in reality a major at an Army missile base.
“Some top-secret electronics parts had been stolen from the base, and
suspicion fell on Frank Logan, a sergeant in the Engineers’ Corps, who
had been dishonorably discharged not long before the theft. Nothing was
ever proved, but my mission was to follow up on the man and determine
his guilt or innocence beyond a doubt.”

The major had obtained a clue that Frank was in the River Heights area
and finally traced him to the vicinity of Benton. John decided that
staying at Lilac Inn, owned by his friend Dick, would be a good
cover-up.

“One day, near the river, I came upon a piece of an engineer’s insigne
from the same branch Frank was in. This gave me an idea that he was in
the vicinity. When you and Helen mentioned the man with the crew cut,”
John explained, “and his not trying to rescue you, I thought he might be
Frank. Yet I had no luck pinpointing his whereabouts. That is, until I
heard certain tools useful to an engineer and Dick’s jig saw were
missing. And when you found the metal device in the lilac grove, Nancy,
I recognized it as a stolen electronics part. That reaffirmed my
suspicions that Frank was nearby.”

Major McBride continued, “I also learned that electronics parts were
being stolen from shops and factories in this region, and the thieves
were using a different stolen car or truck each time for their getaway,
then abandoning it.”

He told Nancy that the red panel truck was one of the vehicles used and
Chief McGinnis explained to Nancy about finding it in Dockville, along
with books on navigation and skin diving.

Nancy learned that Gay had discovered the river shack’s old cellar when
visiting the inn as a child. While working for Mrs. Stonewell, Gay had
told Bud and his pals about the place and they hatched the scheme for
storing the stolen parts there.

Some of the electronics equipment, John disclosed, was being sold on the
black market at a town a hundred miles down the Muskoka River. By
stealing the diamonds, Gay and the crooks would have enough money to
live lavishly for a while until ready to start their nefarious scheme
again.

“Were they the ones who used my convertible and left it in the lane?”
Nancy asked.

John replied Yes, but only to cause one more annoyance. The major now
explained that he had received permission from his superiors to talk
with the police. “A black-market operator who was arrested tipped us off
that the crooks from whom he was buying parts might be in Benton last
night to arrange for a final getaway.”

John said he had returned to Lilac Inn that evening in time to meet Mr.
Drew, Chief McGinnis, who had come along during his free hours because
of his interest in Nancy, and Lieutenant Brice. The trooper had just
received word over the police radio of the accident to the cruiser.
This, together with the fact that Carl Bard had seen Nancy go toward the
river, had given John the idea that the men should board a patrol boat
and search the sinking cruiser.

“This certainly has been an involved and dangerous mystery,” said Carson
Drew.

“Yes, and Nancy deserves most of the credit for solving it,” the State
Police lieutenant spoke up.

Nancy chuckled. “Don’t forget, we still have to find Emily’s diamonds.
John, how about a skin-diving search by daylight tomorrow?”

“With pleasure.” John grinned.

Everyone at Lilac Inn was relieved and thankful to learn that Nancy was
safe and that the mysteries had been cleared up. The following morning
the Willoughbys, Dick, and Helen came along to witness the
treasure-diving expedition.

A river patrol launch stood by as Nancy and John skin-dived to the
bottom of the Muskoka River. After locating the sunken cruiser, the
couple boarded it and entered the cabin where Nancy had been imprisoned.
The sleuth went immediately to the wall and took down the barometer. To
her disappointment, the diamonds were not secreted there.

John and Nancy looked in every conceivable hiding place, but found no
clue. Nancy racked her brains, trying to imagine what spot Gay would
have chosen. A sudden hunch came to her as she spotted the actress’s
make-up case.

Nancy opened it, and searched among the contents. She picked out two
tubes of lipstick. Nancy removed the tops and gasped.

_The tubes were choked with glittering diamonds!_

John gave Nancy a congratulatory pat on her shoulder. The girl detective
put the lipsticks into a pouch attached to her waist and the divers
surfaced.

Emily was thrilled upon recovering her jewels and tears came to her
eyes. Dick and Mrs. Willoughby could not praise Nancy enough.

John beamed at his skin-diving companion. “One of your best deductions,
Nancy.”

A little later that day John announced that a salvage crew had raised
the cruiser. A stock of valuable electronics parts was found in the
small hold, including those Frank Logan had stolen from the missile
base. The gang had planned to sell many of them to an enemy agent.

A week later Nancy was honored at a colorful Army ceremony where she was
presented with the Distinguished Civilian Service Medal for outstanding
work.

“This is marvelous. Thank you!” she said.

When the young detective returned to Lilac Inn for a party on the eve of
Emily’s wedding, the bride-to-be gave her two attendants pins set with
tiny diamonds. Nancy’s was in the form of a lilac spray.

“I had this made especially so you’ll never forget the mystery at Lilac
Inn, Nancy.” Emily smiled. “Dick and I will be forever grateful to you.”

“So exquisite!” Nancy cried, and thanked her friend. “This was such a
challenging mystery.”

Secretly she wondered when another sleuthing adventure would come her
way. “Soon, I hope,” Nancy thought. She was to have her wish when she
found herself involved in _The Secret of Shadow Ranch_.

Later, as Nancy, Helen, and Emily were talking, the two older girls
suddenly stopped speaking on the subject of their forthcoming weddings.
Helen said, “Goodness, Nancy, you must be tired of hearing us talk about
steady partners when—”

Nancy interrupted. Laughing gaily, she said, “Not at all. For the
present, _my_ steady partner is going to be mystery!”